MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons &amp; Dragons.
SAM: Dirty ass voice actors?
MATT: Yes.
LAURA: Is that what you said?
MATT: That is what I said.
LIAM: That's accurate.
MATT: Yeah. Before we go into tonight's game, we
have a couple of quick announcements to go
through, one of which is kind of awesome. First
and foremost, we have our fantastic friends and
sponsors of this campaign thus far and going on to
infinity, D&amp;D Beyond. Sam, if you want to talk a
little bit about that, please.
SAM: Hey everybody, D&amp;D Beyond wanted
to
know that Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes is out.
Big news here guys, it's not Mordenkainen's, and
it's not a Tomb of Foes, as I've been saying it.
It's Mordenkainen's Tomb-- Tome of Foes. Fuck!
(laughter)
SAM: You can purchase it right now at D&amp;D Beyond
on their website. Also, if a player in your
campaign has a master level subscription, any
player, not just the DM, that owns Mordenkainen's
Tome of Foes can share content with everyone in
the party. But the real announcement tonight is
that D&amp;D Beyond has gone beyond. They've made a
thing that I made, but then they took it and they
made it, but it's even better than I made it.
We're going to play it for you tonight, and you
might enjoy it. Have you guys seen it yet?
LIAM: We're about to!
SAM: It's so good! Okay, roll that tape.
[drum intro]
♪ You got the perfect warlock, ♪
♪ her weapons and supplies ♪
♪ But you need a place to track your stuff ♪
♪ 'cause you're so disorganized! ♪
♪ You click open the web page ♪
♪ you heard about on Critical Role ♪
♪ And now you're ready to kick some butt ♪
♪ in that mineshaft full of gnolls! ♪
♪ It's D&amp;D! (D&amp;D) ♪
♪ D&amp;D Beyond ♪
♪ Yeah D&amp;D! (D&amp;D) ♪
♪ You got your stats, you got your sword ♪
♪ and you've got your invisible wand! ♪
♪ It's D&amp;D! (D&amp;D) ♪
♪ D&amp;D! ♪
♪ D&amp;D Beyond! ♪
(cheering)
SAM: That's amazing.
TRAVIS: Holy shit!
SAM: Yeah, they did it.
LAURA: It was so wonderful! We're an 80s cartoon,
guys!
SAM: It's so good.
MATT: It's weirdly emotional.
SAM: It's all of our characters, animated! We have
to give some shout outs to Kamille and Kevin
Areopagita for working on this. Those were the
animators. Go visit at Twitter @Karekareo. We'll
put it up on the thing. You can visit their
Patreon, Patreon.com/kiframe. It's really cool,
and it's really fast, so we thought we might play
it again.
ALL: (chanting) Again! One more time!
[drum intro]
♪ You got the perfect warlock, ♪
♪ her weapons and supplies ♪
♪ But you need a place to track your stuff ♪
♪ 'cause you're so disorganized! ♪
♪ You click open the web page ♪
♪ you heard about on Critical Role ♪
♪ *And now you're ready to kick some butt ♪
♪ *in that mineshaft full of gnolls! ♪
♪ It's D&amp;D! (D&amp;D) ♪
♪ D&amp;D Beyond ♪
♪ Yeah D&amp;D! (D&amp;D) ♪
♪ You got your stats, you got your sword ♪
♪ and you've got your invisible wand! ♪
♪ It's D&amp;D! (D&amp;D) ♪
♪ D&amp;D! ♪
♪ D&amp;D Beyond! ♪
(cheering)
TALIESIN: Thank you, Sam!
SAM: It's not me, it's them! It's the D&amp;D!
TRAVIS: Those fucking vocals, son. That shit.
MATT: How layered was that harmony at the end?
SAM: I did like seven or 12 tracks of harmony.
There's all kinds of stuff going on.
TRAVIS: The synth gives me 80s life in the best
way.
SAM: The drum fill at the end: there's a real drum
fill, but it's also me going: Do do, do do, do do.
(laughter)
MATT: Seriously, Kamille, Kevin Areopagita, you
guys are amazing. Such an incredible job on that.
I want to plug their Patreon again because they
deserve it. That's patreon.com/kiframe. Go check
out their work. They're fantastic.
ASHLEY: Unreal.
TRAVIS: I will be watching that on repeat until
3:00am.
MATT: Yeah. Yeah, I know.
LIAM: Can we all cry if we can get the whole game
tonight?
MATT: It wouldn't be Critical Role if we didn't at
some point. Thank you, D&amp;D Beyond, for being
fantastic partners in this and for making that
shit happen! (voice cracking) Okay, moving on. Oh man.
LIAM: (voice cracking) Emotional cry!
MATT: I know! Vox Machina: Origins, the hardcover,
the physical copy went on sale today! It is
available for purchase now through our friends at
Dark Horse. You can find all the details at
critrole.com. It includes the collection of the
six issue, Vox Machina: Origins comic arc,
previously digital release only, as well as a
bunch of extras in the back. The art process and
the designing of the characters, a whole map of
Stilben, and a bunch of information about some of
the characters, creatures, and items that you see
throughout the story, for possible use in your
home game. But anyway, check it out. I hope you
enjoy it. We're real proud of it. Stream of Many
Eyes starts tomorrow. Ashley and me are going to
be playing on a game tomorrow night for Force Grey
and then a bunch of us are going to be there on
Sunday throughout the day doing various games. You
can check out dnd.wizards.com/SoME for all the
information for this weekend. If you can't be
there in person, they are streaming it so at least
you can check it all out there. It's going to be a
lot of fun. Cool reveals, and crazy stuff.
LAURA and TALIESIN: So crazy.
MATT: It's so crazy. Talks Machina is every
Tuesday evening at 7:00pm Pacific where our
fantastic, recently-escaped-from-the-Far-Realm
Brian W. Foster will be hosting. This is discussed
next week on the things that happened in this
week's episode you're about to see. So check it
out. It should be fun. I will be at A-Kon, June
8th to the 10th. So in a couple weeks, I'll be out
there at Dallas/Fort Worth for panels, signings
and going to talk and hang out with people as much
as I can. So if you're in that area, come say
hello! I believe--
LAURA: Wait, I've got one thing.
MATT: Oh, what you got? What you got, Laura?
LAURA: Oh well, I was just perusing our store
recently because sometimes I do that.
SAM: Full of good stuff!
LAURA: It is full of good stuff, but something I
noticed that we haven't announced is that the
rings that we had forever ago.
TRAVIS: The d20 ring?
LAURA: The d20 spinner rings? Those things are in
the store right now. I don't know if we found a
stockpile of them that we had missed, but there
are some in the store right now. Just so you
know.
TRAVIS: Where the 20 is the CR logo, too?
TALIESIN: Oh shit.
LAURA: I know, we just found some, I guess,
because they're there! There's a bunch of other
stuff, too, t-shirts and stuff, but the spinner
ring is there for maybe five more seconds. Maybe.
I don't know.
MATT: I do like the idea that we have mystery
caches of old items showing up. It's a perpetual
surprise! You'll never know what you'll see!
LIAM: And new items. New items on sale right now.
TRAVIS: It's so pretty!
LIAM: Look at this. Also, hi, Dread Singles, feel
better! Look at that! Look at it on paper! Look at
the color! We can hold it and taste it and smell
it!
MATT: Olivia Samson, our fantastic Critter artist,
did such a great job on this series. If you
haven't had a chance to look at her work, please
do. She's amazing. And on that note, let us all
jump in to tonight's episode of Critical Role.
TRAVIS: (drum beat)
[click, TV static]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: And welcome back. That was pretty creative.
Well done.
LIAM: He would totally do that.
MATT: Hmm, that's a 6th-level spell. Anyway,
welcome back. To catch up on what previously
occurred. The Mighty Nein had decided to leave
Zadash in the wake of the now declared war between
the Dwendalian Empire and the Xhorhasian hordes to
the east. You decided to side with The Gentleman,
a purveyor of various darker and underhanded deeds
throughout this side of the Empire who offered you
two possible contracted options. You chose both
and proceeded onto your first leg of this journey
to the northeast to the Labenda Swamp and to the
city of Berleben where you were tasked to discover
what had happened to a safe house of which various
smuggled goods would be stored and then
transported through, that had gone dark for a
number of weeks. You packed up, made your way in
that direction, traversed through the outskirts of
the swamp, managed to save a tiny bird friend from
being consumed by a few large crocodiles and
scoured the swamp city of Berleben in search of
some means of information to find the individual
that The Gentleman says would be able to help you
in this journey, Febron. Febron was found, drunk
and disorderly, in the Keystone Pub.
LAURA: That's so sexy.
MATT: Oh, so sexy. He's a right nice one. But no.
You managed to interrogate him, made him an offer
he couldn't refuse and he agreed to lead you onto
where the safe house exists within the swamp. You
rented out the rooms in the subterranean chambers
of the old and almost collapsed pub. You separated
yourselves for the evening, completed your rest
and we pick up as morning comes to greet you.
Lightless, as there are no windows and you just
eventually come to on what you assume is an
evening's full rest. You all independently come to
shake your heads and get yourselves prepared for
what the next day's journey arises, you gather
your things and you glare at the rather awkward
Febron across the way, who, as you wake up, is
just sitting there watching you sleep.
MARISHA and LAURA: Ew.
ASHLEY: You're so creepy. I'm going to pull the
bed out from the door. Are you ready to get up?
MATT: Well, I mean, I'm ready to do whatever you
want. Lead the way.
ASHLEY: Great. (retches) Okay. Open the door,
we'll head upstairs.
MATT: You guys begin to--
LAURA: We wake up all cuddled in a pile in our
room.
MARISHA: Yeah. Just floofy with Kiri in between.
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: A little cuddle pile.
MATT: (like Jester) "It's sharp!"
LAURA: You don't sleep with the daggers, Kiri. You
want to remove them.
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: We should have taught her that last night.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's pretty-- I'm glad we're
alive.
MATT: You guys all begin to gather and make your
way up the ladder, through the hatch in the floor
of the Keystone Pub, which is not bustling by any
means. There are maybe three patrons in the
process of having their morning ale. You glance
over the side and you can see Dent Bonswallow
who's in the process of cleaning off a number of
the glasses from the night before. He looks over
in your direction and goes, "Oh, right. Bright
morning to you all. Rise up! Would you like
breakfast of some kind, hey?"
TRAVIS: That's a lot of fucking energy this early
in the morning. God. (clears throat)
LAURA: I would like so much of whatever you have,
please, thank you.
MATT: "Right. Coming right up! Go an find a place
to sit, be with you in about an hour."
ALL: An hour?!
MATT: "Well, I've got to make your food!"
(grumbling)
TRAVIS: Do you have to go and kill it first?
MATT: He's counting. "About an hour."
LAURA: Ugh. That's a long time.
TRAVIS: Yeah. What are we going to do until then?
SAM: It's like an Easy-Bake Oven.
TRAVIS: I mean, should we explore the street that
we're on? I mean, we've got a long wait time.
SAM: Should we see if the-- oh, no. The horses
were taken.
TRAVIS: They took the cart.
LAURA: To the stables.
MATT: Yeah, that's all situated there. There is,
in the far corner of the chamber, the back wall
opposite to the right of where the stage is being
constructed-- though right now, it looks like
there's no current construction going on at the
moment-- a hooded figure is slowly walking towards
the table where you guys are deciding or not
whether to sit.
LAURA: We run for it and we get the table first.
MATT: Okay. You manage to sit on one of the small
benches on the side. Scrapes the ground as you
push into the side and the--
MARISHA: I take my staff and I lay it long ways
over the entire bench on the other side.
TRAVIS: The old movie theater grab?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: The cloaked figure stops and takes in this
physical display, and then continues to approach.
LIAM: Frumpkin walks to the edge of the table and
shows his butthole by lifting his tail up.
MATT: Mark, if you want to step in.
(laughter)
MARISHA: We're always so mean to the guests!
MATT: Mark Hulmes, long-time friend, dungeon
master of High Rollers.
LIAM: I just can't believe he got here.
MARK: You tried.
MATT: The first thing you see: the individuals you
have been waiting throughout the evening to show
up begin to step through, groggily complain about
the space and then claim a table as you begin to
approach, which you are greeted with stares and a
cat butthole.
LAURA: This table is taken by The Mighty Nein, but
if you need anything, there's other tables.
MARK: Oh yeah. Hi, actually, I kind of-- You see
this feminine-looking figure. Long black hair that
covers almost the entire side of her left face,
wearing a hood up, dark green cloak, black and
green clothes, you can occasionally see green
ribbons in her long hair. She is like: I'm really
sorry to bother you guys, just-- I couldn't help
but overhear some conversation you had last-- I'm
sorry to be really forward. Are you heading into
the swamp today?
MARISHA: You were listening in to our
conversations?
MARK: Not on purpose. I'm really desperate to find
a way into the swamp and you were talking really loudly.
LAURA: I like your ribbons.
MARK: Thank you. Oh my-- you're blue! And she
(gasps) And she looks up at you.
LAURA: You're not.
MARK: No. I mean, you're so cute! And looks
around.
TRAVIS: If you don't mind us asking, why are you
heading into the swamp yourself?
MARK: Oh. Well, it's kind of a long story just--
LIAM: Oh, well we have an hour.
MARK: It's also a bit of, well, I mean. You guys
haven't been hired by any creepy people in dragon
masks, have you? You don't know anyone like that?
MARISHA: I mean, not for several years for a
different reason.
TALIESIN: Definitely a long time since I've dealt
with anyone in a dragon mask.
LAURA: I've never seen anyone in a dragon mask
before.
SAM: We've been hired by creepy people, but not
by-- Oh, so I'm wearing a mask, but that is a
different kind of mask. It's not a dragon mask.
MARISHA: Same kind of creepy, though.
LAURA: And this is a bird.
MATT: (chirping)
MARK: What is that?
LAURA and TALIESIN: A bird.
MARK: Like, it walks around?
MATT: (like Jester) "A bird."
LAURA: She. She walks around.
MATT: (like Jester) "She walks around."
TRAVIS: Repeats stuff, yeah.
MARK: Oh my god.
LAURA: She's kind of the best.
MARK: She's adorable! Hello?
MATT: (like Cali) "Hello?"
SAM: She's doing you.
MATT: (whistles)
MARK: (stuttering) Oh my god.
LIAM: Edubation.
MATT: She pulls a dagger out.
LAURA: No! Probably not so much like that.
MARK: Wow. I've never seen a bird like that before
that can talk. Is that your daughter?
TRAVIS: Yes. Yep. Mm-hmm.
SAM: Yes, he's my dad.
MARK: I can tell by the ears.
LAURA: And the green.
MARK: Yeah, that's what I thought. Green ears and
then like the-- anyway. Sorry, I'm getting
distracted from what you asked me. That happens
sometimes. Just give me a nudge and I'll get back
on track. There's something out in the swamp.
There's somewhere, like a smuggler's holdout or
like a storehouse, I think maybe.
LAURA: Mm. Weird. That's crazy.
TALIESIN: That's a weird thing to put in the
middle of a swamp.
LAURA: Yeah, well, anyway. What it is that you
need with that, though?
MARK: Well, somebody was transporting an item I'm
looking for and I think it's there and I need to get
it before some other people get it. But I'm not
stealing it. Well, I kind of am stealing it, but
I'm taking it back for a good reason.
LAURA: Is it the people in the dragon masks that
want it?
MARK: Yeah, it is. You look trustworthy.
TRAVIS: Are you getting paid for this item
retrieval?
MARK: Me?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARK: No. It's more of a personal thing. I want to
make sure it doesn't get into the wrong hands.
LAURA: Is it your underwear?
MARK: What?
SAM: Yeah. What's the item? I mean. I'm sure my
father would want to know what's the item.
MATT: (like Jester) "Your underwear?"
MARK: Well, it's a bowl? I know that sounds weird.
I think it's part of a ritual and I need to get it.
SAM: Like a bowl or a bowl?
MARK: I've never seen a bowl like that. You
couldn't get a lot of soup in a bowl like that
big. I mean a big bowl.
LAURA: It's a soup bowl, then?
TRAVIS: What have you been doing after school?
Honey?
SAM: After-school activities.
MARK: You have a very comfortable relationship.
It's really nice to see, to be honest.
TRAVIS: Very open, yeah. We're like best friends.
SAM: I tell him everything.
MARK: That's good. You need to have that trust
between family.
LIAM: You want to have a big bowl.
TRAVIS: So you're searching for a bowl.
MARK: Yeah. That's right.
TRAVIS: And used in rituals?
MARK: I think so, yes. I need to make sure it
doesn't fall into the wrong hands, that's all.
TRAVIS: Our business might be headed out that way
a little later today. Does she have any weapons on
her that are visible?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Not me!
MARISHA: You're not Grog anymore, it's okay.
TRAVIS: Yes. That's okay. 17.
MATT: All right. Glancing about--
MARK: There's no obvious weapons that you can see
on her, but she has this long green cloak that's
really covering her left side and you would
probably see that there's black scales all over
her left side and she's deliberately holding her
arm completely hidden. Her arm's invisible
underneath the cloak.
LIAM: Also, I'm wondering if she seems
straightforward. Is the nervousness an act?
MATT: Make an insight check.
LIAM: Yeah, okay.
MATT: Welcome to playing with Caleb.
LAURA: Insight check. Insight check!
MARK: I know. I've seen this show.
LIAM: It's a 15.
MATT: 15? Okay. It seems to be rather forthright.
Yeah. Seems to be on the level.
LIAM: Okay.
SAM: Which is not a good answer.
MATT: Yeah. She seems nervous.
LIAM: Could go either way on that.
MATT: You know, based on what you're asking. As
far as the features, if I recall, they're was it
half-elven?
MARK: Yeah. The human half looks half-elven, ever
so slightly elven features. Slightly pointed ear,
but the left side covered.
MARISHA: All right. So you're looking for a bowl.
A dangerous bowl.
LAURA: A soup bowl used in rituals.
MARK: Yeah.
MARISHA: You don't want to get it in the wrong
hands because--
TALIESIN: Of people in dragon masks.
TRAVIS: Do you think they're sending people to get
it there before you?
MARK: I love your jewelry by the way. It's really
nice.
TALIESIN: Thank you. I've picked everything out
myself. This is all put together.
LAURA: (tinkling)
LIAM: Also, why do these people want the bowl that
you're talking about?
MARK: They're-- Do any of them have holy symbols
or religious symbols anywhere on their person?
TALIESIN: I'm literally covered in them.
MARK: Of who?
TALIESIN: Everybody. Literally, the coat is made
up of seven different options.
MATT: Everybody who is legal within the Empire.
TALIESIN: Yes. But there's also-- yeah.
MARK: Is the Platinum Dragon one of those?
TALIESIN: Yeah. I'm wearing a Platinum Dragon
necklace.
MARK: Okay. She notices the Platinum Dragon. Are
you a worshipper of the Platinum Dragon by any chance?
TALIESIN: Sure.
MARK: Okay, yeah. Well, if you're traveling with
somebody who's a worshipper of the Platinum
Dragon, I guess I can trust you.
TRAVIS: Oh, good for us.
LAURA: He's incredibly trustworthy and he worships
like crazy.
TALIESIN: That's what everybody says.
MARK: Oh, by the gods, that's--
TALIESIN: Remind me to show you my tapestries.
MARK: Okay.
TRAVIS: Is that code for something?
TALIESIN: No, it's literally my tapestries.
MARISHA: Just don't touch them.
LAURA: Because he's had them wrapped around his
weenie.
MARK: Like. Oh my good-- uh, well, um.
TALIESIN: She's high on sugar. Don't listen to
her. Anyway.
MARK: Yeah. Have you ever heard of the Scaled
Tyrant?
TRAVIS and SAM: No.
MARK: Well, it's probably a good thing. They're
not a very nice goddess and the worshippers of her
are after this bowl and I need to stop them
getting it. They're not good people.
TRAVIS: And you have a reason to believe that they
are expeditiously heading towards this bowl as well?
MARK: They bought it and I think they're after it
now, yes.
LIAM: This is a very tactless question, but you
are talking about the Scaled Tyrant and you also
are sporting some scales. Is that a coincidence or
are they related?
MARK: I'm sorry, a lot of people get really
nervous when they see them. I'm not diseased or
cursed or anything just-- yeah, I've--
LIAM: We're pretty cool.
MARK: She brushes the hair to her side and she
adjusts the cloak and you can see the whole left
side is black dragon scales and her hand is a
draconic claw.
LAURA and ASHLEY: Whoa!
MARK: A black dragon tail sweeps out from under
the cloak. I'm like a tenth dragon and some people
get freaked out by that.
MARISHA: You're sure you're just a tenth?
MARK: Yeah, I think so. All I know is that a great
ancestor of mine was a black dragon and I've
inherited some of that.
LAURA: Like a full dragon?
MARK: Yeah, that's what I've been told.
MATT: "I think it's pretty sexy to be honest." You
see Febron there, is this creepier old man,
balding, little liver spotted, missing most of his
teeth, one eye wandering a bit.
MARK: Is he with you?
MARISHA: No.
LAURA: Well, he's going to take us where we need
to go.
MARK: Oh, so--
LIAM: He's work for hire.
MARK: Okay. All right. I'm just going to stand
next to Caleb, away from this guy.
MARISHA: I've had shorter conversations with
family members. What's your name?
MARK: Oh, sorry. I'm Calianna, you can call me
Cali.
MARISHA: Kelly?
MARK: Cali.
MARISHA: Cali. Calianna, that's cool.
MARK: Hi! Nice to meet you all. What are your
names?
MATT: (like Nott) "Welcome to the Mighty Nein!"
The little bird creature begins to chirp in your
direction.
MARK: That's a really long name.
LAURA: She's Kiri.
MARK: Oh, Kiri. Hello Kiri. I am Cali.
MATT: (like Cali) "Hello Kiri. I'm Cali."
MARK: No you're Kiri.
MATT: (like Cali) "You're Kiri."
MARK: No, I'm Cali.
MATT: (chirping)
SAM: Only 56 more minutes until breakfast is
ready!
MATT: For the sake of expediency, you share what
information you choose to in that space of time,
but food does come to you piecemeal as your fine
Dent Bonswallow friend decides to deliver it plate by
plate as it arrives. It's passable, most of it's a
little overcooked breakfast meats, bit of rubbery
egg and that's about it. A good swamp breakfast.
LAURA: They need more sugar here.
TRAVIS: Listen, we are kind of heading in that
direction.
MARK: I won't be a burden or anything, but if you
don't mind me coming, I could use the help. The
swamp, I've tried to go out in it by myself, and
there's something out there.
LAURA: Gators. Giant ones.
MARK: I've seen some of those, I avoided them.
But there's also something else. I haven't quite
seen it yet.
MATT: (growling) You hear this deep, horrible
growling sound that echoes around you.
MARK: That's it, I heard that noise.
MATT: You see Kiri's feathers fluffing up as she
does it. (growling)
SAM: Can you do that again, Kiri?
MATT: (growling)
SAM: Have we ever heard this sound before?
MATT: It's the sound of the crocodiles from the
battle before.
LIAM: Frumpkin travels over to Kiri and starts
going (purring) as he nestles against Kiri.
MATT: Kiri starts fluffing and loosely purring
back.
MARK: Is that cat with you?
LIAM: The cat is with me.
MARK: Oh, cats don't like me. They tend to really
freak out.
TRAVIS: Yes! I understand that completely. You and
I, we're going to be real close, I can feel.
MARK: I think they can smell the dragon blood.
TRAVIS: I know, they can tell.
MARK: Are you a dragon as well?!
TRAVIS: No. I'm allergic.
LIAM: I take a step and a half away from Cali.
LAURA: Cali, did you hear any howling in the
swamp, because we heard there were howling
monsters?
MATT: Nothing that was howling-esque,
necessarily, but you didn't travel too far into
the swamp.
MARK: No, I didn't really go that far deep in,
with the gators and some shadows moving around. I
know a little magic, but I've never fought before,
so.
SAM: You've never fought?
MARK: No, I had a bit of a reclused upbringing. I
learned magic, I know a few spells, and I learned
how to control it a bit. Draconic blood gives me
some magic, but I've never been in a real fight
before.
SAM: Caleb can teach you all about magic, he knows
all the spells and he's very wise.
MARK: Really?
SAM: Yes!
MARK: Oh wow!
TRAVIS: Although I don't think we're going to have
time for that. If you're going to join us, you're
going to have to work for your food, you
understand?
MARK: I do!
TRAVIS: My name's Fjord, by the way.
MARK: Nice to meet you Fjord.
MARISHA: Beau.
MARK: Beau?
LIAM: Caleb. Yeah.
SAM: Bren.
MARK: Bren?
LAURA: Jester Fancypants.
MARK: That's a brilliant name.
TALIESIN: Molly.
ASHLEY: Yasha.
MARK: I haven't spoken to you. You're very big.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I mean, that's just me.
MARK: I like your black and white hair, that's
cool.
ASHLEY: Thanks.
MARISHA: You're very excitable.
MATT: (like Jester) "This is Kiri."
MARK: Cali.
ASHLEY: So can you shoot out fire out your nose,
and all that?
MARK: Well, kind of.
LAURA: Just the one, one nostril?
MARK: I could try, yeah. It's mainly if I breathe,
it's more acid. But I can control some fire as well.
MARISHA: Do you have one little wing back there,
too?
MARK: No wings, just the tail and the claw.
MARISHA: That would have been cool, though.
MARK: The claw's kind of sharp, I learned to fight
with it a little bit.
ASHLEY: Can I see it?
MARK: Yeah, I'm just-- Is there anybody else
around in the tavern?
MATT: There's at this point, two other patrons,
but they're not really paying attention.
MARK: I'll put my back to them, and then I'll move
up to Yasha. She takes her cloak off and brings
out this scaled--
MATT: "Jesus Christ! That's your arm?"
MARK: Is that the--?
MATT: Yeah, that's Febron.
MARK: Yeah it is.
MATT: "Don't get me wrong, I still think it's
pretty foxy."
TALIESIN: That's somehow even creepier.
LAURA: You know what, I appreciate that you're so
accepting of everything, Febron.
MARK: It is quite nice.
MATT: "Been around as long as I have, you live a
life of beggars can't be choosers."
TALIESIN: And right back in the pit. Anyway.
MARK: But yeah, I'm happy to help, and work, and
do what you need me to do. I just really need to
get this item. I need to make sure it--
TRAVIS: I understand. Unfortunately, my daughter
is very particular about shiny and expensive
things, so if this bowl has any worth, I'm afraid
we might need to be compensated for our troubles.
Did you happen to bring any coin with you?
MARK: Only a little. I could maybe trade you
something for it, but I'd like to keep it on me
for now, if you don't mind. It's a small trinket.
It's got a little bit of magic, but it's just
that-- you can see on her human arm, it's a silver
bracelet with a charm token hanging off it with a
green emerald.
SAM: I love trinkets.
MARK: It's an arcane focus, I'm told, but it has a
little magic to it.
LAURA: Trinkets are pretty great.
SAM: They are. They always have been.
TRAVIS: We normally have a no stranger policy, but
we'll keep a close eye on you. If you get up to
any tricksy business--
MARK: I promise, no tricksy business from me.
TRAVIS: I hear you talking still. Yeah, Yasha and
Molly, they'll remove your head for you. You
understand?
TALIESIN: Very gently and politely, but yeah.
ASHLEY: You know what? I really like your scales.
I would probably fashion a cool cover for my arm.
LAURA: Yasha!
ASHLEY: I'm not going to do it, I'm just saying
it's really cool. Full transparency.
MARK: I'll be good. I promise.
MARISHA: We're not responsible for any injury or
death that you may sustain while traveling with
us. Even if it is from a member of The Mighty
Nein.
TRAVIS: Should we have her sign something? I mean,
should we have a release form?
LAURA: I'll write up a release form really fast.
SAM: Oh! Illustrated?
LAURA: Yes!
SAM: Illustrate all the things that could happen.
LAURA: Arms being chopped off. An axe to the face.
I will illustrate being burned by fire.
SAM: Castration.
LAURA: Pulled apart by gators. Probably something
creepy and howling eating you as well.
LIAM: This is probably stating the obvious, but if
you have not picked up on it yourself, we are kind
of a pack of assholes.
LAURA: I'm going to use the colored ink from my
mom to make it really gory.
MARK: You're not trying to burn me. You're not
threatening to kill me because I'm cursed. Yeah,
you all seem lovely, really. You're much better
than most people I have to deal with, to be
honest.
LAURA: Here you go. You can sign this.
MARK: Okay! Sorry.
(laughter)
LAURA: All right, we have a deal.
TRAVIS: Good, you're in.
LAURA: Welcome to The Mighty Nein!
MATT: (like Jester) "Welcome to The Mighty Nein!"
MARK: This bird is adorable!
MARISHA: Oh shit there's not-- no, we're not
ironic any more!
TRAVIS: Well, we'll see how we are at the end of
the day. Bet that'll fix itself.
MARISHA: Oh, that's true.
LIAM: Yeah, we are. Because when we write the name
down, it's actually the Zemnian word for no. So
even if there's nine people, then--
TRAVIS: You're overthinking it Caleb.
MARISHA: It's a double entendre.
LAURA and TALIESIN: Let's go!
ASHLEY: Wait, we haven't eaten-- oh yes, we have.
Sorry.
LAURA: Lots of pocket bacon.
TALIESIN: We ordered coffee? We're still waiting
on coffee? Is there going to be a desert? Was
there a desert menu? Can I get a container? Eggs
never keep, anyway.
MATT: You gather your things, finish off the
remainder of your lackluster breakfast. At this
point now, the morning air is chilled, though
there is still humidity that permeates the swamp
vicinity. You hear the bugs beginning to grow
louder with the distant cicada/cricket sounds in
the distance echoing through the swamp. There is a
low fog that is fairly prominent this early in the
morning. You can see about 15 or 20 feet beyond
the barrier of the outer swamp before the moisture
begins to pick up. You see just the shaded trunks
of trees beyond that for another 60 or so feet
before it becomes completely obscured by fog.
LAURA: Whoa, it's creepy!
TALIESIN: Does it always do that?
MATT: "This time of year it does. It's just
getting close to winter."
MARISHA: Do we have basically zero visibility?
MATT: Not zero visibility. You have traveling
about 30 feet of general visibility, and then it
begins to get a little bit beyond that. At this
point Febron chimes in. "Don't worry, it burns off
"a bit as the day goes on."
TRAVIS: Febron, any suggestions whether to move
through the muck fine land or through the trees?
MATT: "I mean, we're going to go through all of
it, really, but we're going to head for the
"outside of the Ounterloch."
TRAVIS: The where?
MATT: "The Ounterloch."
MARISHA: Ounterloch.
LIAM: Under the lake?
MATT: "We're heading towards the lake. We're going
to try and make our way around the outskirts of
"it, but we're going to have to coast through the
swamp to get there. That way we're not trudging
"through the main central area too much."
SAM: Are we taking the cart? Or just going on
foot?
MATT: "Oh I wouldn't recommend taking that with
us, no."
TRAVIS: We'll leave it, it'll be fine, daughter.
SAM: Sure, Papa. May I have my allowance now?
TRAVIS: No. You've been naughty. No.
ASHLEY: Nott-y.
MARK: He's a very stern dad.
SAM: He is, but fair.
MATT: As you guys are plotting a means out there,
Kiri has the dagger out and is practicing little
swings excitedly.
LAURA: Yeah! Kill all of it. Kill the fog, Kiri.
MATT: Then she goes charging towards the fog.
TRAVIS: And gets eaten.
MARISHA: Aww. Damn it!
MATT: It's The Mist.
TRAVIS: Jester's regret.
LAURA: I have to live with this for the rest of my
life.
MATT: Kiri has run past the barrier of The Puddles
on the north side of the city and is now swinging
wildly into the fog.
LAURA: Oh shit! Kiri, come back, Kiri.
MATT, MARISHA, and ASHLEY: (singing) Kiri come
back!
MATT: Runs back, feet leaving a trail behind as
she's stepping through two to three inches of
swamp water across this district. (chirping)
LAURA: You have to be careful. There's lots of
creatures around that could hurt you, you know.
MATT: "There's lots of creatures around that could
hurt you."
LIAM: You always want to stick together. You never
want to split the party.
ASHLEY: Yeah, stay close. Stay close to us.
MATT: She gets right behind Yasha and sticks right
to her back with the dagger out on the opposite side
going--
LAURA: We should really give her like a sheath or
something to put that knife away, Fjord.
TRAVIS: I think you tell kids to run with
scissors, she'll be fine. Can we check to make
sure nobody's following us as we're heading out?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Plus four, 16.
MATT: You take a moment to scout the vicinity. At
this point in the morning, it's maybe about nine
o'clock or so judging by where you can see the
source of sunlight in the somewhat clouded sky.
Glancing around the city, not a lot of folks are
moving. It seems like the nature of the swamp town
is a little bit of a slower pace of living by the
nature of the location. The few folks that are
wandering around the streets are slowly getting to
their daily chores and business. No one seems to
be particularly interested. A few folks look over
because you are a gathered motley crew on the edge
of town, but there's no one who seems to be very
focused in what's going on.
MARISHA: We're the best-looking people in this
town, and that's saying something.
LIAM: This group is very inclined-- we're very
skilled in arcane things. What is your specialty?
MARK: Oh, well. You know how some people learn
magic from books and some people get magic from
gods and stuff, right?
LIAM: Gods and stuff, ja, okay.
MARK: My magic comes from just me? The draconic
blood, I'm told, has magical essences to it.
LIAM: Yes. Cool. What can you do with it?
MARK: Well, I don't know if I should-- It's a lot
of fire and acid, mainly. That seems to be related
to the type of dragon I'm from.
LIAM: Ja, effective.
MARK: I can conjure fire. I can make a lot of
fire. Varying of degrees of fire, really, and acid.
LIAM: Do you have maybe one B-side besides the
fire?
MARK: Besides fire and acid, a little bit of poi--
I can drain life force and invigorate myself a
little bit.
LIAM: Okay.
MARISHA: Say "fire" one more time.
MARK: Fire.
MARISHA: Thank you.
MATT: "Fire. Fire. Fire. Fire." (chirping)
MARK: What kind of magic do you specialize in, Mr.
Caleb?
MATT: "Wrapped around his weenie."
TRAVIS: Good pull!
MARK: You have magic with that? Is that like an
implement or something?
TRAVIS: Deep pull already! That was like 40
minutes ago!
MARK: You said that crows are really smart, so I'm
guessing she knows-- what?
LIAM: There's so much quicksand in this swamp. I'm
feeling trapped. I feel like we have a little bit
of overlap, you know. I'm able to--
LAURA: He has lots of fire.
MARK: Really? You don't have any dragon blood in
you, do you?
LIAM: Nein.
MARK: Oh, that's good.
TALIESIN and SAM: Nine dragons.
MARK: You meant the Zemnian "nein." Not the
number.
LIAM: Step off, Tiamat.
TALIESIN: Well done. That's a good joke.
MATT: "So we good to go? Ready to move? The longer
we take the more risk we run of getting there
"about nighttime, and I would feel a bit nervous
about that to be honest."
TRAVIS: No please, lead on. We're quite anxious to
get there.
MATT: "Okay, so, who's leading?"
LAURA and MARISHA: You are.
MATT: "I'm pointing the direction, no, but I'm not
standing at the front.
MARISHA: For 100 gold, I think you will.
MATT: "100 gold, I'm pointing the direction, but
look at me, I'm not going to defend you well."
ASHLEY: Yeah, but we'll be right behind you.
MATT: "Yeah, but if I die first, you're going to
be lost in this swamp!"
SAM: He's only got one eye, he can't possibly see
what's going on.
TRAVIS: Fine, I'll take the lead, who wants to
join me?
MARISHA: I'll join you.
LAURA: I will.
TRAVIS: Thank you both, don't fight.
MARISHA: If you want to like--
LAURA: It's fine, Beau.
MARISHA: Look, I'm trying to wingman you here
right now.
TRAVIS: What are you talking about?
ASHLEY: I'll take the back.
TALIESIN: I'll also go in the back.
MARK: Yeah, I can shoot things at range or close
up if need be.
LIAM: If need be, but you know. Wait for the need
to be.
MARK: Yeah.
MATT: Nott, where are you?
SAM: I'm going to use my ring of water walking,
and I'm going to be the same level as Beau except
30 feet to the right. Just as a flanking--
LAURA: I'm going to carry Kiri on my shoulders.
MATT: Kiri on your shoulders?
LAURA: Yeah, so that she doesn't have to walk
through the muck.
MATT: There's Kiri. She's up there with the two
feathered arms flopped over and (chirping) looking
around.
ASHLEY: Holding onto your head like a kid.
TALIESIN: Just feathers in your face.
LIAM: I like where we are positioned, what do you
think?
MARK: I'll go wherever you need me to. Mr. Fjord
said that I'm to do whatever so I'll go wherever.
LAURA: How does she know there's a J in your name
really?
TRAVIS: I honestly don't have an answer for that.
MARK: I was pretty sure you said "Fjord," but
okay.
SAM: We're all pretty sure about that.
TRAVIS: You said it right, it's "Ford."
MARK: Thanks, "Mr. Ford."
SAM: It's "Mee-ster Ford."
MARK: "Mee-ster Ford." All right, sure.
MATT: (like Cali) "Mee-ster Ford."
TRAVIS: Oh, Jesus, Kiri. All right, let's go.
MATT: At this point Febron's like, "All right so
looking out this direction, this time of day--
"that way! Lead on, big boy."
TRAVIS: All right. You're actually going to be
scouting, right?
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MATT: As you guys begin to step past the outskirts
of The Puddles, your feet begin to sink thicker
and thicker into the swamp floor as you further
and further step away from this little bastion of
civilization. With each progressive footstep you
can see the waves ripple past and then hit patches
of thick elevated vegetation that's growing and
rotting in small clusters simultaneously. The tree
trunks that are faded shadows begin to come into
view and you begin to see these twisted, gnarled
trees covered in vines that dangle down from these
high boughs that barely cluster out sections of
sunlight, and you pass out underneath those areas
where bits of cloud begin to break through.
LIAM: It was a joke.
MATT: Ah, gotcha
LIAM: I said, "Hi, Beaus."
MATT: Ah, boughs.
LIAM: I know. But I said "Hi, Beaus."
TRAVIS: Three out of five.
MATT: Yeah, it's fine. In pushing this forward and
guiding the path, I'm going to have Febron and
whoever is keeping watch on the exterior to both
make survival checks.
MARISHA: What do you mean on the exterior?
SAM: I'm keeping watch on the right.
MARISHA: I'm keeping watch up front.
ASHLEY: I'm looking on the back.
LIAM: The gators come from the left.
MATT: Right. Well this isn't a perception check,
this is to make their way through the swamp to
keep track of what's ahead, so I'm having Febron
and one of you take point on that.
TRAVIS: Beau.
MARISHA: What kind of a check is this?
LIAM: Survival.
MATT: This is a survival check.
MARISHA: Okay. Oh, I thought it was actually
higher when I first looked at it. 17.
MATT: Actually, you both rolled pretty high. Over
the next two hours or so, you guys manage to keep
for the most part above any of the deeper recesses
of marsh water. Leaping from cluster of tree base
and sections of ground that are mostly above the
water line, it manages to go through without much
of an issue. The fog does slowly begin to burn off
as the hours progress, but it's still present. You
gather probably about the time you arrived at the
end of day yesterday to the exterior of the
Labenda Swamp, there was just a faint bit of fog
at the ground. It will be a number of hours before
you even reach that point, but it is progressing
towards a more visible space. These two hours you
guys continue forward, being mindful and watching
around. Those who are keeping watch, I need both
of you to make perception checks or one of you
make it with advantage, your choice.
MARISHA: It's me and who?
MATT: Whoever else is keeping a watch. You want to
make it, Nott?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Do you want to make it with advantage or
separate?
SAM: Nah. One.
MARISHA: It's not great for me either. Six.
LAURA: Oh, jeez Louise.
SAM: Clear on the right!
MARISHA: Clear on the front!
TRAVIS: Right, front--
MARISHA: (shouting) Clear on the left? Man, which
way am I looking?
SAM: I don't know.
TRAVIS: It's really reassuring when there's a
question mark on the end of your statement.
LIAM: This is generally how it goes.
MATT: Febron at this point's still looking. He
says, "Wait, hold on a second." He starts doing a
little circle in the area, checking out some of
the recent trees, looking at the sun in the sky
and he's like, "Yeah. I feel like we're going the
right way."
TALIESIN: Wait, just to be clear: Your job-- your
only job was to walk to a building and back for
god knows how many years and you think we're
going the right way?
MATT: "Yeah, we don't usually leave this early in
the morning."
TRAVIS: Are you still drunk?
MATT: (noncommittal grunt)
TALIESIN: Do you need to be drunk?
MATT: "Yeah."
LIAM and ASHLEY: Nott.
SAM: What?
LIAM: Not a problem. Bren, would you help our
friend out?
SAM: Oh. Yes, it's me, Bren. Yeah, I'll be right
over.
MARK: She's oblivious, completely lost. She's
looking around like--
SAM: Febron, do you have any cups? I don't want
you to--
MATT: He pulls out a half-filled wineskin, opens
it up, pours the water out.
SAM: Have some booze. I'll fill it to the brim.
MATT: He looks curiously at the flask and the
amount of liquid you poured in there.
SAM: Cheers.
MATT: "Cheers indeed. Tiny girl." He watches as
you drink the alcohol and is confused. Gets a
closer look at you at this point and he goes--
TALIESIN: Now is not the time to start making
judgments, sir.
MATT: "Right."
TALIESIN: Does that clear your memory?
MATT: "Aye. It's this way." Make another survival
check.
MARK: Mr. Fjord, you're very liberal with your
parenting.
MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Sunny.
LAURA: It's just milk.
MARK: Oh. That makes sense.
MARISHA: Man, that's really frustrating. Seven.
TALIESIN: Did you both roll?
MARISHA: Huh?
MATT: Well, it was Febron and Beau.
MARISHA: Seven. Not good. I keep getting so
close.
TALIESIN: Do we not get advantage?
MATT: Well, this one they're doing it
individually, because you have somebody outside
of-- Along the path as you guys are progressing
for the next hour or so, Febron and Beau are
keeping pace on this. Keeping watch, moving
forward, you step through some of the soggier
areas of the swamp and your foot gets stuck a bit
and it's starting to get a little more difficult
to traverse. Febron's like, "It's just a few more
hours and we'll make our way to the outskirts of
"the lake. It'll be a lot easier then, trust me.
It'll be fine."
MARISHA: Sorry.
MARK: Sounds great.
MATT: At this point, Fjord, as you are stepping
near the front you come around the corner and
without notice there's this strange sound. This
(airy puff) and there's a cloud of pollen-like
spores in the air right where you are. I need you
to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
LAURA and ASHLEY: Oh no.
SAM: He's very wise, he'll be fine.
TRAVIS: Oh jeez.
MARK: That's always a good sign.
TRAVIS: 14.
MATT: You manage to pull back, coughing a bit, and
your head goes dazed for a moment, but you manage
to shrug it off. You guys look ahead and beyond
the area where Fjord was pushing, around one of the
trees you can see this large, 30-foot wide cloud
of yellowish pollen that went (airy puff) and
slowly settles into the swamp area.
MARK: Blimey.
TRAVIS: Can we see a source where it came from? A
plant or a--
MATT: There's a whole mess of twisted vines and
plant matter in the center of the space. Where it
seemed to emit from, the center, though, you do
see one large fern-type plant that's left open and
three or four large leaves that are spread
outward.
TRAVIS: I think that doesn't look very
hospitable.
MARISHA: Febron.
LAURA: We should avoid those, huh?
MARISHA: Yeah. Is this a thing that happens, I'm
assuming?
MATT: "I haven't actually seen this close to one
of them. I usually avoid them. So let's avoid it, eh?"
MARK: Hello, Mr. Fjord?
TRAVIS: Yeah?
MARK: I don't know if this is-- do you want me to
burn it all away?
TRAVIS: Cali, that is a very good idea.
MARK: Like that area, right? Is that where it came
from?
TRAVIS: I mean, hoping the pollen's not flammable,
but sure try it.
MARK: Is it flammable, Mr. Creepy Pervert?
MATT: "First off, I resent that."
MARK: Do you?
MATT: "No."
TALIESIN: I think the "Mr." was pretty respectable, all
things considered.
MATT: "I'll take that. I mean, I figure it's
probably in the way, burn it if you can. I don't
"trust it."
MARK: How wide radius is this area?
MATT: This vicinity is about 30 feet around this
particular plant in the center that's lying open,
face to the sky.
MARK: 20-foot radius would--
MATT: It would encompass the plant, definitely.
MARK: Fireball. The dragon claw comes out, and
this green flame magic coalesces. She flicks out
this green orb that fires down, and when it hits
it detonates.
LAURA: Wow!
MATT: It emits this large blast of orangish-red
fire that burns in the area. Go ahead and roll
damage.
MARK: Can I have a d6 from somebody? I need six
more.
MARISHA: There's three.
TALIESIN: Feel free to dive through the bag for
anything you need.
LAURA: Dang it, I'm trying to get to my bag to
help you, but--
MATT: She's filled with a baby.
LIAM: Baby's in the way. Get used to it.
LAURA: I can't bend. Whoa.
MARK: I'm taking that, it's a six.
LAURA: Yes.
SAM: He's a high roller.
MATT and MARISHA: Ooh.
MARK: That's very good. That's going to be 28
points.
MATT: 28 points of fire damage. This explosion
immediately evaporates the fog in the area, and a
large part of the ground now is dried off. You see
this mist or steam (hiss) out of where the
detonation happened. The plant in the center,
which is now more visible, you can see snap shut.
This giant three, four part maw closes in the
space with these plant-like teeth. It's still
there, writhing in pain from the explosion. It
laxes open a bit and begins to shift in your
direction. It looks hurt, but still alive.
TRAVIS: Caleb.
MARISHA: It moves.
LAURA: Sacred Flame.
LIAM: Fire Bolt.
MATT: All right, Fire Bolt, Sacred Flame, that's
cocked. That's a 15.
LAURA: Dex save.
MATT: 15, yeah, so no Sacred Flame but--
LIAM: 17 for Fire Bolt.
MATT: 17 hits, roll damage.
LIAM: Okay. That is not that much, actually.
LAURA: That was a dex check, yes?
MATT: Yes. Or no-- yeah. For Sacred Flame, yeah.
LIAM: That is a 12.
MATT: 12?
LIAM: Yes.
MATT: 12 points of damage. As you slam it with the
Fire Bolt, it (shrieks) and keeps moving forward,
but it's hurt.
LAURA: Toll the Dead!
MATT: Rolled another 15.
LAURA: Damn it.
LIAM: If you give me six second increments, I'm
just going to go (releasing spells).
MARK: When it's within 60 feet, I can Acid Splash
it as well.
TALIESIN: Just for fun, (Infernal) stay down.
SAM: Jesus.
MATT: 16. Sorry.
TALIESIN: Some days you can't get rid of a bomb.
TRAVIS: I'll give it a whirl. I'll reach up near
my eye, and you see this little arc of energy pop
out from my eye towards my hand. I'll throw it
forward and cast Witch Bolt.
SAM: Witch Bolt.
LAURA and ASHLEY: Ooh.
LIAM: Which bolt do you cast?
MATT: You guys are all preparing your various
cantrips and spells against it. It begins lurching
forward. You can see the charred edges of this
large vegetable plant. Then Fjord steps forward
sending this arc of darker, gray-green energy that
strikes into it. Roll damage-- roll to hit first.
TRAVIS: Oh, thank you, yeah. Ten plus six, 16.
MATT: 16 hits.
TRAVIS: Okay, great. This is overkill, it's 3d12.
SAM: Oh shit.
TRAVIS: That's nine--
MARISHA: Wow!
LIAM: Good rolls!
TRAVIS: 27 points of damage.
MATT: As it strikes this large, trap-like plant,
it hits the center of it. It bubbles up for a
second, the green and red matter of the interior
swells and then pops. Like a horrible flesh-filled
water balloon spatters across various areas. You
guys have to take a step back and it glides
against your knees and thighs a bit.
MARK: Can I use Shape Water to keep it out of my
way? My cantrip just (disgusted groan).
MATT: It just manages to avoid you. But it lies
now, decimated and sinking slowly into the swamp
water.
MARK: Oh, sorry. I thought I'd kill it the first
time. I'm sorry you had to do that.
TRAVIS: No, it was a really encouraging display. I
was not expecting it to be so durable.
MARK: Yeah, me neither. I thought it was just a
plant.
LAURA: We should really avoid those in the future,
huh?
LIAM: Well that's one in an entire swamp of
vegetation. So we should be good now.
SAM: How's it going over there, guys?
MARK: No, there's going to be loads of plants, Mr.
Caleb.
TALIESIN: Anything on the right?
LIAM: That is correct.
SAM: Nope, all clear!
MARISHA: Anything on the left?
TALIESIN: Right.
MARISHA: No, I'm asking for anything on the left.
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: Thank you.
TALIESIN: Is there somebody on the left?
TRAVIS: Not anymore with these rolls.
MARISHA: Nine.
MATT: Who else wants to make a perception check?
LAURA: I would.
MARISHA: I roll obnoxiously bad.
SAM: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Whoa.
LAURA: Woo-hoo, 13!
MATT: 13? Okay. A brief breeze blows through the
swamp as you guys move on from this positioning.
You hear a very faint hiss through the distant
branches of the trees, singing in unison, as bits
of leaves and vines clatter against themselves
from the shift. But you manage to catch a sound
upon the wind that is unfamiliar to the rest of the
natural breeze. It's like a chime. Like a wooden
chime (dull thunks).
LAURA: (whispering) I hear something.
MARK: (whispering) What do you hear?
LAURA: I hear a chime.
TALIESIN: (gong)
LAURA: No, like little wind chimes. Like we
had at home.
MARK: Oh, that sounds nice.
LAURA: Yeah.
MARK: It can't be anything bad.
LAURA: We used to hang them in our balconies.
MATT: You can listen up and can hear it for a
moment too as the breeze blows through a second
time. Kiri makes the same sound (dull thunks).
LAURA: It sounded like that!
TALIESIN: Well done.
MARISHA: Oh yeah. The little bamboo ones. Those
are great.
MATT: Looks like it's a little bit northward of
where you're headed. A little north--
LAURA: Febron, is that where the thing is, that
we're going?
MATT: "I mean, it could be."
LIAM: North is that way.
MATT: "It's loosely on the way. If you trust it.
We could avoid it, though."
LAURA: Oh, so it's not the safe house, it's
another building, for sure?
MATT: "I don't know what the hell that is. I
haven't heard that out here before."
LAURA: We should find out what it is.
TRAVIS: I actually tend to agree. I don't want to
leave things undiscovered.
MATT: "Are you sure about that?"
MARISHA: What did we pay you for?
MATT: "I'm helping you."
TRAVIS: Are you?
MARISHA: It's questionable. It's honestly
debatable.
MARK: He seems to be doing his best.
MATT: "Thank you."
MARK: Don't thank me, you're weird.
LIAM: Frumpkin. I'm going to sit on a relatively
dry spot if I can find one. I'm going to go blind
and deaf and send Frumpkin in the direction, with
Jester's help, towards the sound that she heard.
MARK: I make it drier for Caleb, using Shape
Water, dry out some of the area.
MATT: Sure. You cause some of the swamp mass to
pull back a bit.
LAURA: That's cool.
TRAVIS: Surf pro.
MATT: Frumpkin takes a little bit, because this
terrain is not very conducive to prowling cats of
Frumpkin's size. But Frumpkin heads on for a bit,
coming across the source of this sound. You see
about 100 or so feet ahead in the direction
where you heard the sound, hanging from one of the
branches, there is indeed a cluster of carved
chimes that are dangling from a piece of twine
there. They're banging into each other every now
and then when the breeze slowly comes through.
LAURA: Just in a tree.
MATT: On a branch, yeah.
LAURA: Oh, that's creepy.
LIAM: I will give the group a basic narration as I
see these things.
MATT: You can give a perception check for
Frumpkin.
LIAM: My basic perception check is not too bad. It
is a 16.
MATT: 16, okay. From Frumpkin's view underneath,
you can get a close look at it, and the material
of the chimes isn't wood. It appears to be
yellowed, old, dried, hollowed bone. The twine
itself is not twine. It appears to have been
tanned or dried sinew.
TRAVIS: (disgusted) Oh, yeah.
LIAM: What was that word?
MATT: Sinew.
TRAVIS: Super inviting. Just all the tendons.
LAURA: Our wind chimes were made of wood.
LIAM: How much of it are Frumpkin and I looking
at? It's one little ditty or are we talking True
Detective here?
MATT: Currently it's just the one chime.
LAURA: Does Frumpkin see anything around, like any
living things?
LIAM: I don't hear shit.
MARISHA: True.
TALIESIN: Does this sound like some sort of ward
against the undead?
MATT: It doesn't catch your mind as anything that
is a defensive mechanism to undead that you would
recognize.
LIAM: It's hanging from a tree?
MATT: It is, about seven feet above Frumpkin.
LIAM: I am going to send Frumpkin up the tree.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: I am going to send Frumpkin toward the
branch.
MATT: Frumpkin manages to climb the tree using the
outside of the somewhat twisted bark, getting to
the top. From that viewing point, as Frumpkin gets
out there you can-- (laughs)
LAURA: Do you want to hold my hand? I try to hold
Caleb's hand?
TRAVIS: (cat growling)
SAM: It's clammy.
MATT: You do see from the top of the branch,
beyond the edge of the fog, there looks to be a
thick tree that has broken and fallen over about
ten feet from the base. The heavy roots rise up
into this trunk that still stands about nine or
ten feet from the base of the swamp floor. It
appears like there is a hollow carved into it,
circular, and a curtain that is currently pressed,
bolted, or nailed into it that is partially
blocking an opening into the tree.
LIAM: Like sealed or nailed in so it's hanging
down?
MATT: It's hanging down and every now and then a
faint breeze comes through and you see it shift
ever so slightly. But it's a heavy material.
LIAM: Okay, what I would like to attempt to do is
send Frumpkin up to and stick his head inside, and
as soon as I get a little peeky-poo, snap my
fingers and bamf him out into the Fey.
MATT: Okay. As Frumpkin-- make a stealth check.
ASHLEY: Come on Caleb.
MARISHA: Come on Frumpy.
LAURA: Lumpy Frumpy.
LIAM: A big 13.
MATT: Okay. Good to know.
LAURA: It's really good.
MATT: It is better than 12.
MARISHA: A baker's dozen.
LIAM: Remember when I used to get a 45.
MATT: Frumpkin stalks up through, avoiding the
sleight depressed elements of the floor that fill
with the thicker bog water. Coming upon the
outskirts you can see the curtain that hangs is
not cloth. It appears to be a scaled leather-like
material. Actually pretty similar to what you had
carved from the crocodile the day before. But long
weathered and it's dry towards the top, but the
base of it seems to have been progressively
moistened by the swamp around it. As such, it's
slightly decomposing, and it has a bit of moss and
algae that's grown on it, giving it a lighter
green at the tip. Looking inside, there is a layer
of bones that are all broken, and chipped to the
point where it's given a textured base to the
floor. From this view, you're not able to make out
what the bone source is or what they're from. But
there is a gentle layer of bones of varying
degrees of age to them. Within there you also
see-- there is natural rot on the inside of this
trunk, that's let it easily be carved away. There
appears to be a matted pile of something in the
corner. Other than that, in the brief instant that
Frumpkin's paying attention, it appears to be empty.
LAURA: That pile was definitely something
sleeping.
MATT: Frumpkin returns to his realm.
LIAM: Oh yeah, like I was saying to you, there is
a tree out there and there is something sleeping
in it.
TRAVIS: Did you hear anything, snoring?
LIAM: No, but there are a lot of bones there. They
looked like--
LAURA: What kind of bones?
LIAM: They are not chicken bones.
LAURA: Like gator bones, maybe though?
LIAM: Well, they were probably smaller than that,
yeah?
MATT: You didn't get a good, long look at them.
You literally got in quickly and went (poof).
TRAVIS: Jester, bones aren't normally a very good
sign.
MARK: That doesn't seem very good.
LIAM: There was something in the corner. Something
that was not bones, but it wasn't moving.
LAURA: I bet it was a friendly person.
LIAM: It definitely wasn't the thing we're
looking for.
TRAVIS: You didn't happen to see a bowl, did you?
LIAM: I did not see a bowl. I made a perception
check.
MATT: In the brief instant you looked in there,
you got a few details in the interior before
pulling way.
LIAM: Yes, not bowls, just bones.
LAURA: I'll tell you what, let's go to the safe
house and then we'll come back if we are not
completely almost dead, and see what we see
there.
LIAM: Save it for a rainy day.
TRAVIS: Very wise.
LAURA: Especially if there is no bowl in the safe
house. Then we know some other place to look for it.
LIAM: This one's a gimme, a bonus, only if we feel
up to it.
MARK: You're all so brave.
TRAVIS: Do you think we'll be able to find our way
back here? Should we mark a tree or something like that?
LAURA: Let's mark a tree.
TALIESIN: I've got that.
MARISHA: Cause Fabron doesn't seem to know which
way his ass is, so.
MATT: "That's not true at all."
TRAVIS: Which way's your ass?
MATT: "It's right here."
LIAM: North is--
MATT: "It's that way."
LIAM: North is-- no it is that way.
MATT: "That's what I said."
LIAM: You're pointing over there, I'm pointing
over here. North is that way.
MATT: "Yeah."
TALIESIN: I'm going to pull out my sword, and I'm
going to carve into the side of the tree a big
sign that says "Here Lies Salty Pete" with an
arrow down, straight below.
MARK: Who's Salty Pete?
TALIESIN: I don't know, but it sounds like
something awful happened to him, doesn't it?
MARK: Aw, that's really sad.
TALIESIN: Do you have a way of magically marking
this as well so we can have a bit of a compass?
LIAM: A compass?
TALIESIN: Yeah like a point-- can you do a thing
where you can put a pin in this tree?
MARK: Can you do that, Mr. Caleb?
LIAM: Well, a couple things, one, this is a
compass.
TALIESIN: That's true! Never mind.
LAURA: Oh, we'll find our way back.
LIAM: That's not an issue. But if you want to know
if something's happening here with Salty Pete, we
can also do that if you give me ten minutes. But
it doesn't seem like that's what you're--
TALIESIN: No, that's not fair. As long as we can
make our way back here again one way or the other,
and I suppose that's true.
LIAM: I do not know where the safe house is, but
anywhere we have been we can get to again.
TRAVIS: Fair enough.
LAURA: (singing) Let's go to the safe house then.
MATT: You continue moving on?
TRAVIS: Lead on.
MATT: Febron goes, "All right. That way," and he
points in the direction and ushers you forward.
TRAVIS: You did a good job the first time, let's
take it up again.
MARISHA: All right.
MATT: What pace are you moving at? Normal pace,
slow pace, fast pace?
SAM: We always move at a medium pace.
MATT: Okay, medium pace it is.
LAURA: Wait, hold on, let me look at what I have.
I could cast Pass Without a Trace on anyone within
30 feet of me.
MATT: You could. You have to move at a slow pace
to move stealthily, though.
TRAVIS: I think our speed is halved in the
conditions, right?
MATT: For the most of it, yeah.
LAURA: Oh, so it would be super slow.
TRAVIS: Doing the slo-mo game.
LAURA: Well, maybe not then. Maybe when we go back
to the creepy tree, we can do that.
MATT: As you continue on, Febron and-- Beau, are
you the other one with Febron doing the survival checks?
MARISHA: I think so.
MATT: Make one more.
MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Gil. Natural 20! Gil!
MATT: As you guys begin to watch the treeline
slowly thin, Febron's like, "Oh, it's a good sign.
"We're getting very close to getting out of this
fucking swamp and getting next to the Ounterloch
"that'll lead us there. No issue, no more of this."
Right as he's saying that, you watch him about to
step into another one of those open plants that
begins to quake, and you watch as it's about to
release this burst of pollen, Beau.
MARISHA: I go: Oh, you're about to-- watch it!
MATT: You don't stop him, you just point it out.
It goes (puffing).
SAM: Nice, he's dead.
MATT: He goes, "What? (coughing)" and starts
walking straight towards it.
MARISHA: Oh, I grab him. Can I reach out and grab
him? Trying to cover my mouth.
MATT: Make an athletics check for you to try and
grapple him.
MARISHA: Either that or we lose our shithole
guide.
TRAVIS: Which is really not losing much at this
point.
MARISHA: No. Okay, we lose our 100 gold
investment. Athletics, right?
MATT: Acrobatics. Sorry, athletics for you to
grapple him.
MARISHA: Okay. Ooh! Nope, it's worse than I
thought. It's real bad. It's an eight.
MATT: You reach and grab him, but he shrugs off
your arm and starts walking.
MARK: As he's about to step, can I cast Levitate
on him and lift him up into the air? He doesn't
step on it, with the claw, the green magic comes
out and (whoosh) up into the air.
MATT: He continues to walk towards it, and then
glides up in the air and is floating. He's
reaching towards it, and the plant (slurping) and
is trying to reach for him.
MARISHA: I take my staff and bat him away like a
helium balloon. Just start batting him back over
away from it.
MATT: He's now floating and slowly rotating in the
air, like (grunting).
MARK: I'll be raising him up and down, shaking him
in the air, like, "Come on, shake out of it, come on!"
TRAVIS: Maybe we try to outmaneuver this one now.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I think we've already had our fun
with the one.
LAURA: I open my journal and start drawing him as
a balloon.
SAM: Hold on. We're not done.
TALIESIN: No, there's a lot happening over there.
MATT: It takes you the better part of a minute to
finally shake him out of it, before he goes, "Oh,
"is it-- what? Shit! (yelling) Shit, what's going
on?!"
LAURA: (shushing)
MATT: The plant's still below him, going like
(slurping).
MARK: Ms. Beau, could you nudge him off to the
side? I'm getting tired of this.
MATT: You poke him and he begins to glide over--
MARK: Then I'll lower him down--
MATT: The plant is now turning towards him, slowly
shifting in his direction, and he's like "Backing
"away, there's a fucking--"
MARISHA: Can I now grab him by the collar and try
and drag him away?
MATT: Yeah, you move around the side and you pull
him away.
MARISHA: Come on.
MATT: You guys begin to pick up your pace. This
plant is not very fast-moving, and you, even
moving at your slower pace, it can't keep up with
you and it eventually gives up and disappears into
the fog behind you.
TALIESIN: The loneliest plant.
MATT: I love that you roll a 20 to see it before
him and and went, "Sure."
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: I love it, it's great.
MARISHA: Watch your step, man! Ah.
MATT: Yeah. All righty.
LIAM: Febron. You've been through this swamp once
or many times?
MATT: "I've been through it a few times, but
usually it's with a group of other smugglers, and
"they take care of me and protect me, like you are.
Thank you."
LIAM: It's a bit late in the game, but are you
being completely forthright with us? Is he?
MARK: You're welcome.
MATT: Make an insight check.
LIAM: That is a natural one.
MATT: It's hard to read.
LIAM: Can I make a suggestion, Febron? And I cast
Suggestion on Febron.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: I feel you should be completely honest with
us from this point on, because you know, honesty,
it's the easiest thing to remember.
MATT: "You know, I appreciate that. I don't
appreciate you casting spells to fuck with all my
"mind and shit. But I've been honest! I'm going to
make some honest coin, and I'm doing my fucking
"best, all right? Now come on, it's this way."
LIAM: It's that way.
MATT: "(stuttering) Not north, where we're going!"
At this point, you guys can see the very edge of
the water is now starting to show through the fog
and you can see where bits of the lake are hitting the
shoreline, and you have reached the Ounterloch in
the middle of the Labenda Swamp.
LAURA: Hey, there's a lake!
TALIESIN: With that, life delivers a pleasant
surprise.
LAURA: Febron.
MATT: "Yeah?"
LAURA: Are there monsters in this lake?
MATT: "I don't know, I don't go into it. I
recommend not getting too close, just in case. We
"usually stay right on the coastal side of it, you
know?"
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "Perfect."
LAURA: (splashing)
MATT: "No, what're you doing?! No, shit!"
LAURA: Then I go back out. I just wanted to see.
MATT: The whole time you're doing that, Kiri's
like (chirping). Who's keeping watch on this?
SAM: Keeping watch?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: What do you mean?
MATT: I need you and probably Beau, since you were
with Febron before, make a perception check, please.
TRAVIS: Ooh, 17 plus one. 18.
MARISHA: Ten.
MATT: Okay. As you guys are trudging along on the
bank of this lake, heading northward, Fjord, out
of the corner of your eye you see a shadow shift
in the trees to the left of you. You glance back
and you see something disappear behind a tree,
about 40, 50 feet off.
TRAVIS: Hold. I saw movement. Off to our side, 40
to 50 feet into the trees.
SAM: Which side?
MATT: To the left side.
SAM: There's nothing over here on my side.
MARK: Should we pretend like we haven't seen it,
we should just carry on as normal?
MARISHA: No, that's not-- just no one move.
MARK: Okay.
LAURA: We just freeze?
TRAVIS: Fan out a little bit.
LIAM: If we don't move, that's also a little
weird.
TRAVIS: Yeah, fan out. Who wants to move towards
it with me?
ASHLEY: I will move towards it with you.
MARK: I'll come.
ASHLEY: I'll take out my blade.
MARK: I'll come with you.
LIAM: I walk in the opposite direction.
TALIESIN: Fighters move forward, magic peoples
hang back.
LAURA: Maybe I shouldn't move forward.
MATT: So you guys are heading towards the shadow
you saw?
TRAVIS: Yasha, Molly, Cali, and Fjord. We'll walk
towards it.
LAURA: I stay right where I am.
TRAVIS: But fan out, not together. Maybe ten, 15
feet in between us. Like a fire line.
LIAM: Let's go, I say as I walk backwards.
MATT: Fjord, Molly, and Yasha like that?
MARK: I'm going as well.
MATT: And Beau?
MARK: And Cali, right?
LIAM: That mini.
TRAVIS: But fanned fire line.
LIAM: Oh, the tail's there!
MARISHA: Look at you!
ALL: Ooh!
MARK: That was a real rush job that I had to order
a day before I flew out.
MARISHA: You're smexy.
LIAM: Just pull it over here for a second.
MATT: You begin to turn and approach and you guys
form your line moving forward. You watch as
something lumbering moves. It's still on the edge
of the fog, and it shifts from the tree where it
was to a tree further back and then ducks behind
another tree. It's not very stealthy, though it
thinks it might be.
TRAVIS: Is it moving fast-- easily in this
terrain?
MATT: It seems to be moving fairly easily in the
terrain.
LAURA: What is it?
LIAM: (as Gollum) What is it?
MARK: (as Gollum) What did you say?
MARISHA: All right, I'm going to stealthily do
some monk (footsteps) up to it a bit.
LAURA: Maybe it's something nice!
MARISHA: See if I can get a better look.
MATT: Okay, make a stealth check.
MARISHA: Oh my god, 14.
LAURA: What's happening?
MATT: Okay. As you tiptoe through the edges,
leaping from cluster of root to cluster of root,
being as quiet as you can, you come around the
first tree where this figure had vanished, look
around to where it's currently waiting and you see
two trees that grew together and a large rock
that's wedged at the base of it. Crouched below,
behind the rock, you see this bulbous humanoid
creature, with a deep green-blue skin tone with
little pustules and boils on it, at the edges of
the shoulder and arm. You see long stringy black
hair that goes past the front of the chest. The
torso appears to be swollen, this belly protruding
beyond it. You can see hanging around the neck
other pieces of hollowed bone, very similar to
that chime that you saw being described by Caleb.
MARISHA: Is it a troll?
MATT: It appears to be trollish in nature. The
pustules and part of its body, there's this thick
green liquid that's oozing out in places. It's
sitting there clinging to the rock with its long
fingers, clutching it, looking over in the
direction of where you were, breathing heavy.
MARISHA: Does he see The Mighty Nein?
MATT: It seems to be looking in the direction
where you were.
MARISHA: But he doesn't see me.
MATT: He doesn't see you at the moment, no.
TRAVIS: (whispering) Do not see me!
MARISHA: How far away am I from him?
MATT: You're about 35 feet from it.
MARISHA: Could I theoretically throw something
behind him?
MATT: You could certainly try.
MARISHA: Yeah, sure. I'm going to take out a
handful of ball bearings and try and toss them.
MATT: Make a sleight of hand check to do so
without making a very visible toss.
LAURA: Yeah, right? No sound at all.
MARISHA: 24-- 22.
MATT: You take the handful and lob them quietly,
as far as you can. You hear very faint impacts of
them about 25, 30 feet off. The trollish creature
goes (snarling) and pushes off the rock a bit,
looking that direction. Looks over the rock, looks
back in that direction. It's now looking like he's
paranoid and keeping tabs on both sides.
MARISHA: I'm going to stealth back.
MATT: Make another stealth check.
MARISHA: 19.
MATT: You manage pull back to the rest of the
group as you guys are holding your line, waiting
for Beau to return.
MARISHA: It's a troll. Like a--
TRAVIS: Toucan? With a belly?
ASHLEY: He's got a beak?
MARISHA: No. He's like a troll.
LAURA: (loudly) What are you saying, Beau?
TRAVIS: Shh, Jester!
MARISHA: I think he knows we're here. But he's a
slimy undead troll-like guy.
MARK: That sounds really bad. Let's not go near
it.
MARISHA: I also think he might be who lives in
that hut.
SAM: How do you know that?
MARISHA: Because he looked bony.
MARK: That's a reasonable deduction.
LAURA: (loudly) Maybe there's lots of them around
too.
SAM: Shut up, Jester.
TALIESIN: Theater whisper.
MARISHA: I don't think we want to deal with them,
though.
TRAVIS: We'll keep moving around the edge of the
lake. Who wants to keep an eye on his area as
we're moving?
MARISHA: I think he's stalking us.
LAURA: I will.
TRAVIS: Jester and Molly, you keep an eye as we
keep moving forward. We'll come back to where the
casters are.
SAM: Are you going to stay behind?
TRAVIS: No, they're going to stay with us in a
tight group. But they're going to keep their eyes
as we move.
MARK: It's all right, little Bren, they'll look
after us.
SAM: Who? Oh me, yes! Thank you.
TRAVIS: Mind your slice of the pie, all right, you
guys? You're a fan of pie, so.
LAURA: Got it.
MATT: (like Fjord) "You're a fan of pie."
(chirping)
LAURA: I am a fan of pie, Kiri!
MATT: Do you guys continue onward?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: Stealthy, though.
LAURA: We are keeping an eye on the troll.
MATT: You are out in the open, at the edge of
where the lake is, beyond the treeline. Being
stealthy here means being quiet, but you're still
very much out in the open.
LIAM: So you're saying there's a chance.
MATT: I'm saying if an entity knows you're there,
if you're not trying to obscure your visual,
you're going to have a hard time avoiding it.
SAM: Should we create a distraction for it first?
TALIESIN: Let's just pay attention, and if it
starts getting close then we'll deal with it.
We're just not going to let it escape. We're just
going to keep an eye out for it.
MARISHA: It might be better if we move quicker
through here as well, instead of stealthily.
MARK: I'm sure if you pray to the Platinum Dragon,
we'll be all right.
LIAM: (inaudible chanting)
MATT: As you guys push on, Febron's looking
extremely nervous now that you've mentioned this
creature. "Wait, are you saying you saw this troll
thing? Over there?"
TRAVIS: Heard of something like that around here?
MATT: "Only heard rumors and we talk about various
things that live out there, trolls is definitely
"one of them."
MARISHA: How long have you lived here?
MATT: "Through the ages, there have been all sorts
of stories. There's uglier trolls here. Swamp
"trolls, mountain trolls, all types, and this one,
it wouldn't surprise me. I haven't seen one, but I
"stay perfectly quiet. Quieter than you usually do
as a group. I'm just going to stay here," and
clings behind you, Fjord, like as a shield.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I don't know if that's going to work
for me. All right, let's get moving. Try and
ignore this.
MATT: You guys move on, taking care to be quiet,
but not out of sight. If you want to be stealthy
in that regard, make a stealth check.
TRAVIS: We'll give him a chance whether he engages
or not
MARISHA: We wanted to move faster.
MATT: So then no stealth?
TRAVIS: No stealth.
MATT: So you guys continue pushing forward at your
regular pace.
TRAVIS: Maybe a little faster than our regular,
too.
MARK: That was really brave, by the way, you
sneaking off like that and finding it out.
MARISHA: Thank you. You're so complimentary. It
makes me a little nauseous.
MARK: I was raised and people were really nice to
me, they used to tell me I was special and how
important I was and it made me feel nice, so I try
and do that for everyone else.
MARISHA: Man, that's so sweet. Ugh. Where are you
from?
MARK: Thank you! Technically I was born in Port
Damali, but I didn't spend a lot of time there. I
lived on the streets on my own and then I was
taken in by some people.
MARISHA: Really?
TRAVIS: Some people?
MARK: Yeah, I guess-- You guys have been nice to
me, I can tell. You know I mentioned those folks
in the dragon masks, the cult? They were the ones
that raised me.
LIAM: That's the first time you're introducing the
word "cult" into conversation.
MARK: Oh, sorry, yeah.
SAM: You're a cultist?
MARK: No. I was raised by them--
MARISHA: You're an ex-cultist.
LIAM: Cult adjacent.
MARK: I guess. I mean--
SAM: Cult-ish?
MARIK: Cult-ish, maybe.
MATT: (like Nott) "You're a cultist? You're a
cultist?"
MARK: All right, stop, bird! Stop saying that
word! I don't like it.
TALIESIN: Did you have your own mask or do they
just wear masks, out of curiosity?
MARK: I didn't get a mask because I wasn't allowed
out. They kept me in the temple. It's because they
were bad, all right? I'm glad that I'm not with
them anymore. They're bad people.
LIAM: So they did this to you?
MARK: No, I've always been like this.
MARISHA: They worshiped you?
MARK: Yeah, they told me I was special. I was
important to them somehow.
MATT: Yasha and Fjord, as they're having this
conversation, you're watching at the flanks and
you can see the shape of that troll creature is
still moving from tree to tree, keeping pace with
your movement.
ASHLEY: Fjord.
TRAVIS: I saw it. What do you want to do?
ASHLEY: There's one of him and however the fuck
many of us.
LIAM: How far back is he?
TRAVIS: Not too far.
MATT: It's not approaching you, but it's keeping
pace.
MARISHA: We're on rough terrain right now?
MATT: You're not in the center of the swamp where
it's a lot of shifting topography and roots and
vines and patches of deep water you have to come
across. You're along the coast of this lake, so
it's mainly soggy dirt and sand, so it's not rough
terrain where you are.
MARISHA: But where he is, it would be considered
rough terrain?
MATT: Yes. But you also have no protection. You're
literally out in the open.
MARISHA: We can try to send someone ahead as bait,
lure him out, fight him on steady ground?
TRAVIS: Or we could just keep letting him match.
LAURA: The thing is, what if something bad comes
in front of us and then they trap us? Because he's
just following us.
MARK: Why isn't he attacking us?
LAURA: Maybe he has friends ahead that he's
waiting on.
TALIESIN: I tend to find things that live in trees
filled with bones tend to not have necessarily many
friends. I'm just putting it out there. I have
nothing else to base that off of, but it didn't
look like a very social creature.
LIAM: So if we feel like we want to get into a
scrap, I or probably our new friend here could
kick it off from a ways away.
TRAVIS: We could, or Jester, you're pretty
friendly. You want to see if--?
LAURA: It's a friend?
LIAM: The troll.
MARISHA: He had green pus-y ooze pouring out of
holes in his face. Just want to throw that out there.
SAM: You could heal him and curry favor with him.
LAURA: I could if I made myself look like a little
teeny troll. And they would want to be friends
with me.
MARISHA: I got undead vibes from this guy?
LIAM: Also, you are very charming, but every book
that I have ever read about trolls-- They do not
make friends. They are bitter, nasty things.
ASHLEY: They eat you if you're little, you know.
MARISHA: He definitely had like a collarbone just
hanging out.
TALIESIN: Can I see him from here?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: Seven.
MATT: You do not.
TALIESIN: Do I technically have advantage because
it's trying to perceive an undead creature?
MATT: No, because you don't know if this
creature's undead or not.
SAM: What if we set a trap or an ambush for him or
her?
MARISHA: That's what I literally just said.
SAM: We could do a little circley-poo and put Cali
in the middle as bait, and then when it comes to
attack, we spring the trap!
TRAVIS: What's the trap made of?
SAM: I don't know, I've been drinking a lot.
LAURA: What if we ran rope between a couple trees
and then we tripped it?
LIAM: It's watching us right now, isn't it?
MARISHA: He probably is hearing everything we're
talking about.
LIAM: Debatable whether it can understand us, but
perhaps it can.
LAURA: Man, trolls are so cool!
TRAVIS: Okay, how about this: Yasha, I'm sure
you'll agree, we can make one move to see if it's
interested in non-violence and then we have the
advantage here now.
ASHLEY: I like that idea a lot. Yeah, I would
agree.
TRAVIS: I don't like being tailed in particular.
SAM: Someone walks up to it while the others flank
around?
LAURA: Do you want me to do it, Fjord?
TRAVIS: Don't you?
LAURA: Here, you hold Kiri then, because I don't
want her to get too close to it.
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: What are you doing? Why are you holding--?
SAM and LAURA: No! Put her down!
MARK: You wouldn't hold your own daughter that
way!
MATT: (like Nott) "It's me, Bren!" (chirping)
Pulls the dagger out.
SAM: I'll take Kiri, give me Kiri. Come here,
little Kiri. My father won't hurt you anymore.
MARK: I'm going to stand closer to Bren. I'm
disappointed in you, Mr. Fjord!
TRAVIS: That means literally nothing to me.
MARISHA: She's so formal in her admonishment. Man,
it kind of makes me feel bad. Anyway, let's go.
I'll flank to the north.
LAURA: Is the troll just watching all of you go
away?
MATT: If you're doing this stealthily, then I need
anyone who's trying to not be seen to make a
stealth check.
LAURA: Should I try to Pass Without a Trace, you
guys?
TRAVIS: I don't think we should stealth.
SAM: It's not an ambush if they can see where we
are.
TRAVIS: Fuck the ambush. There's nine of us. One
of him.
SAM: That you know of.
LIAM: I would, in fact, like to try to walk behind
a tree so I'm obscured.
MARISHA: I'm going to stealth to the north.
TALIESIN: I'll join you in the non-stealthing.
MATT: Beau's stealthing to the north, which will
be here. Fjord, you guys are heading inward.
TRAVIS: Molly, Yasha, and I will not be stealthing
and heading inward, and we'll be just behind
Jester's diplomatic envoy.
LIAM: I don't know if it can see me or not, but I
would like to hold Magic Missile in case it
attacks my friends.
ASHLEY: I want to be close enough to Jester in
case anything happens.
MATT: Jester, where are you standing?
LAURA: I guess I will be falling back because I'm
going to talk to him.
TALIESIN: You'll be going in front of us. Because
you're going to talk to him.
LAURA: I thought the thing was behind us.
MATT: You guys are heading northward this way. You
guys have to go this way because the lake's all
this direction.
MARK: I'm stood next to Nott, with Kiri.
MATT: Nott and Kiri are back here, and that would
be-- Go off to that side. Febron is like, "I'm
"going to stay back here with the people in the
back-back, because I want to stay in the back."
TRAVIS: (sarcastically) Oh no, I was enjoying our
closeness.
MATT: You guys begin to trudge in, deeper into the
swamp.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to pull the last of my
pastries, which I'm sure are really fucking gross
by now.
MATT: Yeah, they're pretty stale. You're fine. As
you begin to move into the swamp, you do see the
shape and it's about maybe 60 or so feet from
where you are. You watch it shift, and then shift
to another tree a little further away.
MARISHA: He's moving away from us?
MATT: He's moving away from you.
TRAVIS: Are we sure it's the same one?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: 17.
MATT: You see one shape move, it's similar to the
one you saw before. You can ascertain that it
probably is the same creature, yeah.
MARISHA: Okay, we do not want to follow this bunny
rabbit down the hole.
LAURA: I'm going to Invoke Duplicity and I'm going
to send my duplicate towards the troll. It's skipping.
LIAM: (singing Peter's Theme from Peter and the
Wolf)
TRAVIS: Yes, perfect.
MATT: Make a deception check. No, you don't need
to after that, we'll see if he can see through the
illusion. It skips ahead. Just keeps walking in
that direction?
LAURA: Towards the trees, looking like she's
picking some vegetation. I doubt there's flowers.
TRAVIS: Mushrooms.
LAURA: But whatever. Yeah. Whatever she can do.
MATT: 50 feet, 60 feet, gets relatively close to
where you saw the shape vanish.
LAURA: I'm going to have her turn her back to the
troll and act like she's digging around in the mud.
MATT: From behind the tree, one of the claws-- The
long, stringy hair dangling, somewhat stuck to its
neck, shifting with the light breeze that blows
through as it looks back and watches the illusion
turn and shift. Is it relatively close to the
tree, the illusion?
LAURA: Pretty close.
MATT: It sits there and waits, shifts.
LAURA: I'm going to have her take a couple of
steps away from the tree.
MATT: It shifts back in its space a little bit.
LAURA: She's going to step back towards the tree.
MATT: As soon as it gets within about five or so
feet, the illusion, the troll creature reaches out
and swings out to grab the illusion, passes
through, and the claws (slash) into the tree. It
goes (frantic grunting) and then vanishes behind
the tree. You watch it dart, the shadow of it
vanish behind another tree, and it's moving
further away from where you are.
LAURA: Don't think it was friendly.
TRAVIS: Question answered. Did it move away?
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Do you want to chase it?
LAURA: I think we should stick to the safe house,
what do you guys think?
TRAVIS: I think that's a good call.
TALIESIN: For now.
TRAVIS: We'll stagger back towards the back line
of our group.
MARISHA: Yeah, continue on.
LAURA: I'll keep the invoke duplicity, the second
me, skipping through the swamp at a distance.
MATT: How long does that last? Lasts for a
minute?
LAURA: Invoke Duplicity lasts I think a minute,
yeah.
MATT: You guys cluster together outside of the
swamp alongside the curvature of the lake, keeping
an eye on the side, you continue to travel
forward. The lake slowly begins to, as you guys
are heading northward, along its side it begins to
curve to a northeastern direction, and Febron's
like, "All right, so this is good. We're getting
closer to the northern side of the lake, which
"means we're getting close to where we follow the
pearl blades to the safe house. Good, okay." At
this point, you look over to the side. Who's
keeping a watch on this? Okay, both of you guys
roll a perception check, please.
MARISHA: Motherfucker, my perception is balls.
TRAVIS: 15.
MARISHA: Nine.
LAURA: Beau needs to stop looking out for things.
MATT: 15, you said? You do see the shape now
keeping pace with you again, same distance out
there. It's stalking you, but it's definitely--
you get the sense, based on the interaction you
had earlier and the distance it's keeping-- it's
not interested in fighting nine of you. It's
waiting to pick one of you off and take it
wherever it's going to take it. It's smart enough
to know that it's not going to jump into a fray in
the open space, but it's definitely waiting to see
what weaker one stays to the back.
ASHLEY: Can we put some of the little ones-- Nott.
Bren, get in the middle. Kiri.
SAM: Yep, on my way.
ASHLEY: I'm going to get in the back.
MATT: You guys continue heading in a northeastern
direction until eventually you watch the lake come
to a northern peak and begin to curve back into a
southern area. It looks like the top of the lake
bends to a point northward and then begins to head
southward and level out. At this point, Febron
goes, "All right, good. From here, we head
northward into the swamp. We're looking for
"daggers with pearl hilts in the trees. Those are
the markers; there's six of them that lead us
"there." He's going to make a perception check. He
looks a bit lost; someone want to help him out
with this?
LAURA: Yeah, I'll look.
MATT: Make a perception check as well.
LAURA: 12, I think. Yeah.
MATT: It takes you a moment, but you manage to
catch-- the third or fourth tree into the
treeline, and you see a gleaming pearl-hilted
dagger that is jammed about five feet off the
ground into one of the thicker pieces of tree bark
on the exterior of one of these trees. It's this
little mark that looks like someone jammed a
whittling knife into it and left it there, and he
goes, "That's one, good. Okay, that means we're
going the right way."
LIAM: Do you see it? Show me.
LAURA: It's right here; it's at eye level with
me.
LIAM: Good.
MATT: Moving up, looking for the next one. Go
ahead and roll.
LAURA: Ooh, that's better. That's a 23.
MATT: Both of you go, "There!" at the same time.
MATT and LAURA: Ah! (chuckling)
MATT: "All right, second one." Moving on, looking
for the third.
LAURA: That was a one for me, I don't see it.
MATT: This one takes a little longer to find. All
right.
LAURA: But I don't wander too far from everyone
else because there's a troll out there, you guys!
MATT: Yeah. You find the third, Febron finds the
fourth.
LAURA: I find that last one.
MATT: Fifth one because he did not find it, but
you locate it.
LAURA: 23!
MATT: Yeah. With that point, he goes, "Okay. I'm
pretty sure we're almost there." He points ahead,
and you can see where there's a cluster of trees.
A new sight catches your attention. The first
thing that hits you is this faint scent of rotting
flesh. It hits your nose a bit and your eyes
sting, water for the moment. As your vision
focuses on the first corpse, a human man propped
up on a spear going up through the side of his
torso and out his left pectoral. His stomach is
bloated and his skin is dull gray and glistening.
His jaw hangs open, his expression this horrible,
ghastly grimace. A few feet from him, stuck to one
of the trees, you see a halfling woman with two
blades jammed through her shoulders, pinning her
up, legs dangling, but one leg is partially torn
off. Her head is mounted down, hair in her face so
you can't make out any features, and they're both
placed up there right against this opening to a
small clearing ahead, and this is where Febron
goes, "And that's what I'm talking about. That's
the warning. Whoever did this is trying to keep us out."
LAURA: You haven't gone past these--
MATT: "Fuck no!"
LAURA: Shh! (quietly) They could be around! Hey
you guys, I could try this thing that I've been
wanting to do for a while, which is where I can
talk to somebody that is not alive anymore.
SAM: You can do that?
LAURA: Yeah, the Traveler's teaching me all about
it and I think I can do it.
MARK: Is the Traveler another wizard?
LAURA: He kind of is, but he's really powerful,
and he's super cool.
LIAM: Settle in.
LAURA: He wears this really cool cloak, and he's
got an amazing voice. Actually, hold on! I pull
out one of my pamphlets. Here, if you want to
learn more, you just let me know.
TRAVIS: Maybe we can get back to talking to the
dead people?
LAURA: Yeah, do you want me to try it?
SAM: That sounds like a great idea.
TALIESIN: Nott, why don't we check for traps,
too?
SAM: Oh, that's my job!
MARISHA: How long does it take you to talk to dead
people?
LAURA: It's instantaneous, but I can talk to them
for about ten minutes or so.
SAM: Anyone who's dead, or just one dead person?
LAURA: Just one dead person that I cast it on.
SAM: Which body is fresher, Matthew?
MATT: From what you're looking at, they're both
about as fresh as the other.
TRAVIS: Which one's got the better mouth?
LAURA: It doesn't have to be fresh, it could be
really old.
MATT: They both have their jaws intact. From what
you can tell, the female halfling, you can't make
out the features of the face because the hair is
in the way and dangling. The other one's is open.
LAURA: Which one looks friendlier?
MATT: They both look pretty dead!
SAM: Let me check for traps on the smaller one.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
SAM: Oh, a lot. 25.
MATT: No traps, nothing like that. You do notice
there are wounds across the body. Beyond the leg
missing, there are a number of wounds. You can
make a medicine check to try and ascertain what they are.
SAM: Ten.
MATT: Okay. They seem to be a combination of bite
and claw marks. Not super deep slashing, but
definitely a gash across the shoulder, the neck.
There is one large puncture wound about that wide
that's right around where the sternum is. But
whatever punctured it, one of the edges is torn
out, like something hooked was placed in and then
pulled through, dragging the flesh with it.
SAM: Does her face look like--
MATT: Intact.
SAM: Yeah, we don't know this person, right?
MATT: No, you do not recognize this person,
lifeless. You do see some rough elements of
tattoos along the neck similar to the banded neck
tattoos of members of The Gentleman's crew that
you had seen before. Not as thick and dense, but
you can see that there is a pattern to the
acquisition of some of these tattoos for the ones
who run the smuggling line. You're starting to
ascertain and put that together, but intact.
SAM: Would you like to talk to this one?
LAURA: I mean, sure.
SAM: Well, let me introduce you.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: This is my friend, Jester.
LAURA: Hi.
SAM: Jester, this is a dead body.
LAURA: I'm nervous; I've never done this before.
TALIESIN: This should be good.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to hold my symbol of the
Traveler.
MARISHA: I'm going to keep a lookout while she
does this.
LAURA: I'm going to be like, okay, I'm going to do
this thing.
SAM: Just be confident.
MATT: Kiri pulls a blade and gets behind Cali and
is like, (like Jester) "I've never done this before."
LAURA: Kiri, be careful.
MATT: (like Jester) "Be careful."
LAURA: Hey, you dead person, hey. I would like if
you would come to life again a little bit and tell
us some things that we want to know.
(tongue waggling)
(surprised yell)
(screaming)
MATT: You watch as a tiny dagger goes into the tree
next to it and Kiri's around Cali's going--
TRAVIS: Easy, Kiri, easy. Settle, settle.
MATT: (cawing, whimpering)
MARK: Yeah, Kiri settle.
MATT: As the chest breathes in, some of the air
escapes some of the wounds, and there's bits of matter-
MARK: (retching)
MATT: The head settles down and looks right--
MARISHA: Yasha and her gag reflex.
ASHLEY: Oh no, it's happening again. It feels like
it's coming up.
MATT: Febron leaps back, he's like, "Shit!", and
backs up a little bit. He looks really
uncomfortable with this whole thing. You don't
think he was prepared for any sort of dead-raising
circumstance. "Is this fucking necromancy?!"
LAURA: Well, kind of!
MATT: He keeps backing away. Now the corpse's face
of this halfling woman turns towards you.
(inhaling)
LAURA: (tongue waggling) We have to ask it some
questions.
(low monotone) What did this to you?
SAM: I don't think you have to talk like you're
dead.
LAURA: Really, are you sure though? Have you ever
talked to a dead person?
SAM: I've never done it, you know more about this
than me.
MATT: (whispered voice) "Swamp fishmen
from under the ground."
LAURA: Beau, are you writing this down?
MARISHA: Swamp fishman from underground.
MARK: That is incredibly specific and really
useful.
(laughter)
LAURA: How many swamp fishmen?
MATT: "Many."
LAURA: Many, there're lots of them. There're lots
of them that attacked.
SAM: Where? When?
LAURA: How long ago did this happen to you?
SAM: How many questions do you get?
LAURA: I get five of them.
MATT: "Weeks. Two, maybe three."
LAURA: Wow. Two or three weeks ago. Oh! Did
anything that you did to the fishmen seem to hurt
them more than other things?
SAM: (spookily) Ooh.
MATT: "We cut when we could. They bleed, but too
many."
LAURA: They bleed, but there's too many bleeds.
MARK: If it bleeds, we can kill them.
MARISHA: So when you cut it, it bleeds. Got it.
SAM: One more question.
LAURA: I get one more question, what should I
ask?
MATT: Kiri comes up and grabs the dagger, wedges
it out of the tree and turns to Cali and goes,
(like Cali) "If it bleeds, we can kill it." Points
it back to the corpse.
LAURA: Don't kill it again, okay Kiri? It's okay.
We have another question.
SAM: Either where this happened or where they were
hiding?
TALIESIN: Where did it happen, inside? Or where
did they come from?
TRAVIS: Underground.
TALIESIN: But did they come from the house, or
from outside the safe house, or inside?
MARK: Could you word it in a way where you ask all
of those in one question, like, "Did you come from
this, this, or this?" maybe, and then we'll know
where?
SAM: Or, we could ask if there's a secret entrance
to the safe house.
TALIESIN: What if there isn't?
SAM: Then we've wasted a question.
TALIESIN: That's fair.
MARK: But we know there's not a secret entrance.
TRAVIS: Did any of it precede the attack?
LAURA: Or we could ask it what its childhood was
like.
SAM: That would be an interesting story. I'm going
to check behind us and see how far back Fermaw,
what's his name, Febron?
MATT: Febron?
SAM: How far back has Febron gone?
MATT: He's 20 feet behind you. He's keeping a
little back from the whole undead thing.
SAM: Hey, Febron! Don't go too far. There's a
troll back there.
MATT: At which point, from behind one of the trees
(growling), the troll reaches out and grabs him by
the torso, pulls him back, and you hear him scream
as the troll grabs him, tucks him under his arm,
(snarling) and begins leaping away from you.
LIAM: Magic Missile!
MATT: Okay, go for it. Make an attack.
ASHLEY: I go running.
MATT: You go running.
SAM: I miss. I got a nine.
MARISHA: Almost made a bet if Febron was going to
make it.
MARK: Acid Splash. Cali's going to spit a glob of
acid.
MATT: (splashes) All righty.
TALIESIN: Oh no. Wait. Come back.
LIAM: I'm going to cast at 2nd-level.
MARISHA: Yeah. Oh no, man, oh no.
MATT: Let me get the--
ASHLEY: Wait, did we already give him the 100
gold?
SAM: Yes.
ASHLEY: We're going to give him at the end,
right?
SAM: No, we gave it to him already.
ASHLEY: We gave him half?
TALIESIN: We're going to loot the corpse anyway.
We know where that money's going.
MARISHA: He did his job, though. He got us here.
TALIESIN: We're going to go find it in the tree
later. It'll be fine.
ASHLEY: If he dies, we can get the money back.
LAURA: Don't waste all your spells, you've got to
fight fish men!
TALIESIN: It's practically going to be in a safety
deposit box.
MARISHA: Hold this for us.
TRAVIS: He's fucking huge!
MATT: That is the troll.
TRAVIS: I thought he was humanoid-sized!
LAURA: Oh, he's huge!
MARISHA: Look, he tucked Febron under his arm.
TRAVIS: Why did you go try to be friends with
that? What are you thinking?
ASHLEY: I didn't know he was that big!
MATT: This is the opening of the clearing here,
where you guys were talking to the halfling that
was stapled to the tree right there.
LAURA: Just stapled to the tree.
MATT: Essentially, yeah. You guys all spin and
watch this happening. Kiri's over by the edge of
the tree with you, and Caleb, where were you?
LIAM: Towards the back of the group, never near
the front.
MATT: You would have probably been over here, near
Nott.
TRAVIS: This is north, towards me?
MATT: Technically, this would be north.
LAURA: Technically!
MATT: Yes, that area's north.
SAM: I fired a shot that missed.
MATT: Yes. What did you roll?
SAM: A nine.
MATT: That did miss.
LIAM: Magic Missile, level two, four darts, total
of 16 force damage.
MATT: Nice.
MARK: Reflex save-- Dexterity. Dexterity saving
throw for the Acid Splash.
MATT: The troll spins and goes running with Febron
going (screaming) in its grasp, it starts
lumbering, leaping from tree to tree. Its legs,
while it has this bulbous, swollen midsection,
these thin frog-like legs are giving these fairly
decent leaps from section to section, its other
arm grasping onto the trees as it runs. You can
see this is definitely its home terrain. As these
magic missiles swarm out and slam into its body,
with each impact, that green ichor sprays across
Febron, and it starts to burn into his skin. He's
(screaming).
TRAVIS: Xenomorph blood.
LAURA: Oh no!
TRAVIS: Is he unconscious? Is he done? Is that
it?
MATT: Febron goes limp--
(cheering and groaning)
MATT: I rolled 2d8. I rolled eight on each of
them. That was the reaction there.
MARK: Dexterity saving throw for the Acid Splash
as well, if you don't mind.
MATT: Correct. That's a four.
MARK: Seven.
MATT: Seven points of acid, got it. As it slams,
it begins to burn the back of the skin. You watch
a bit of steam rise off of its shoulder. It
definitely is wounding the creature. This large,
swollen troll is still making a break. I need
everyone to roll initiative now.
LIAM: Don't fuck me, Matt Mercer.
MARISHA: That's a natural one.
MATT: 25 to 20?
LAURA: 23.
MARK: 20.
MARISHA: Actually, I'm going to blow my d8. Ooh,
that's an eight.
TRAVIS: Jester and Cali?
MATT: 20 to 15?
SAM: 18.
TALIESIN: 16.
MATT: Nott and Molly. 15 to ten?
MARISHA: 14.
TRAVIS: 14 as well.
LIAM: Did you speak up yet?
ASHLEY: Nope.
LIAM: Of course you didn't.
TRAVIS: Oh my god!
MATT: Ten to five?
ASHLEY: Six. Every time!
MATT: Eight?
TALIESIN: It's magic.
MATT: Ashley, it's incredible.
ASHLEY: It really is. I have a plus two in this
campaign, also. Good grief.
MATT: Is that everybody? I think so, yeah. Top of
the round, as it's bounding behind with an
unconscious guide under its arm, Jester, you're up
first.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to Toll the Dead because
he's been injured.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: I'm going to turn around and be like
(splat).
MATT: What type of damage is it?
LAURA: It is necrotic damage, but he has to roll a
wisdom saving throw.
MATT: Which he does not make, he rolled a 12.
LAURA: So 2d12! I can help search for those in a
second--
SAM: No, I got them.
LAURA: Six whole points!
MATT: Six points of damage. As the energy
coalesces and the bell, (impact) in the range of
this creature, it impacts it and it staggers for a
second, and the pustules on its body emit more of
that poison.
LAURA: He has a loud ringing in his ears, damn
it.
MATT: That finishes your go. Cali, you're up.
MARK: Okay, so, seeing everything go on, and the
combat erupt, you see her twitch a little bit, and
she snarls a little. I'm going to rush up 30 feet,
move up as much as I can. Get back here, now! I'm
going to Quickened Spell, False Life on myself--
actually, no, I'll just do it as a normal action,
I won't Quickened Spell it. I'll do False Life on
myself and gain some vigor, as a 1st-level spell.
SAM: All words I've never heard before.
ASHLEY: Same!
MARK: I gain seven temporary hit points, and then
I'm going to-- well, that's it. Yeah.
MATT: Cool. This strange barrier of arcane energy
forms around Cali's body, giving this little
essence of vigor, and the body swells a bit. That
finishes your turn. Nott, you're up.
SAM: I'll get within 30 feet. Fire a crossbow shot
towards its foot.
MATT: Within 30 feet, you can stop about there.
SAM: That's good.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: It hits, probably. 24?
MATT: Yeah, that hits.
SAM: Sneak attack? No.
MATT: Technically, no, because he's aware that you
were there, and is not currently flanked by any allies.
LAURA: Not flanked by Febron.
SAM: Oh, terrible. Five points.
MATT: Five points of piercing damage. It strikes
and sticks into the back, and more of that green
stuff begins to spray out of the wound where it
hit in the vicinity. It's creating bursts of this
toxic sludge that's oozing from its body around it
each time you're hitting it.
SAM: I'll shoot again, with bonus action. Ooh,
that's not as good. 13?
MATT: 13? That does not hit. It manages to hit the
tree that's near it and sticking into that one, there.
SAM: I'll use the rest of my movement to duck
behind a tree or something while I scream.
LAURA: I wonder if Febron is going to get covered
in that pus that's coming out of him.
MATT: There's quite a bit of it on Febron,
actually.
LIAM: Are we in difficult terrain here?
MATT: Yes, you are.
MARISHA: Green stuff should sponsor us.
MATT: I'd say in this clearing you're not in
terribly difficult terrain. You're moving around
okay, it's not too bad. The further you get into
it this way, it starts getting a little more--
like in the cluster of trees in here, it starts
getting a harder to move in.
LIAM: Although, you've got your shoes on, yeah?
LAURA: The ring.
MATT: That ends Nott's turn. Molly, you're up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to try and cast Enthrall.
MATT: Okay. That is a 14. What is it, wisdom?
TALIESIN: I don't know. Yes, I believe it's a
wisdom--
MATT: 13. Your DC on that is? It's charisma-based,
right? This is your racial?
TALIESIN: Yeah, it is racial.
MATT: It succeeds, it's a ten. Unfortunately! That
would have stopped it in its tracks.
TALIESIN: (groaning mumbles)
MARISHA: That was Molly?
TALIESIN: Yep.
MATT: Is that your turn? Do you want to move
closer?
TALIESIN: I'll move up to that tree.
MATT: Okay, so you move up to there.
TALIESIN: As a bonus, I'll-- no, I'll hold off.
MATT: Okay, that finishes Molly's go. Beau and
Fjord, you guys are up.
MARISHA: I think I'm 40 feet within him. If you do
it--
LAURA: You're 40 feet within him?
MATT: (counting) You do, you get right up into its
body.
MARISHA: Hey, so deep! Okay, I'm going to pop pop.
My two strikes-- oh, wait, that's a die damage.
First two strikes! First one is a 21, second one
is a 16?
MATT: They both hit.
MARISHA: Okay! Damn it, I rolled a one, this
sucks. 12 damage for the first one, seven damage
for the second one.
MATT: Great.
MARISHA: Yeah?
MATT: What else are you doing?
MARISHA: I'm going to use a ki point to do
stunning strike.
MATT: Oh, nice.
MARISHA: Stunning strike!
MATT: All right. 21.
MARISHA: Fuck.
MATT: That is a plus five on its constitution
saving throw. Trolls, man. It resists the stunning strike.
MARISHA: That's good to know.
MATT: You still have your bonus, though.
MARISHA: I still have my bonus. I'll just punch
him in the face.
LAURA: Please don't waste all your stuff on this
guy, because, you know--
MARISHA: Because we might still fight all those
things. Nine damage. No, sorry, ten damage.
MATT: Ten damage. Third strike?
MARISHA: That was it.
MATT: Okay, cool. You rush forward, slamming into
it with your staff and your fists, striking into
its body. With each impact, it takes you a moment
to realize what's happening, but that spray is
covering your face, and as it does, the venom is
pushing into your flesh and burning upon contact.
MARISHA: You guys, it makes your throat a little
numb!
MATT: You take nine points of poison damage. You
take another nine points of poison damage. You
take 15 points of poison damage. A total of--
sorry, 15, nine and nine, so that's 34? 34 points
of poison damage.
TRAVIS: 33.
MATT: 33, sorry.
LAURA: Y'all, don't get close to this guy, because
I don't want to waste all my--
MATT: Febron, by the way? Fucking dead. You see
now he's coated in this toxin. The eyes are open
and now pouring out of his mouth is foam at the
edge with his tongue lolling out. Yeah, as it was
fleeing, all the impacts covered him with the same
toxic stuff and sent him straight to his grave.
MARISHA: Guys, our money's getting away!
LAURA: I think it's okay because I'm going to have
to use all my fucking spells healing you, Beau!
MARISHA: I'm okay!
LAURA: Why don't you get back here?
MATT: That ends Beau's turn. Fjord, what are you
doing?
TRAVIS: Can I move 15 feet towards the troll? I'll
see the gore and poison splattering all over Beau
and little sizzles coming up and shit, and I'm
like: Eh, Eldritch Blast!
MARISHA: I turn around to you and I go (gasping
and groaning).
TRAVIS: (screams, blasts)
MATT: All right. Two attacks on it.
TRAVIS: Okay. Oh, that's 26 to hit.
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: And 25 to hit.
MATT: Both hit.
TRAVIS: Those were monsters, jeez. 1d10 plus four,
that's eight points on the first one, and that's
14 points on the second one.
MATT: Woo, nice! Both parts of its back where they
impact, the flesh tears open, revealing the muscle
beneath, and as it does, more of it sprays.
Beau--
TRAVIS: Oh, shit, right!
MATT: You take five points of poison damage.
MARISHA: Hang on, let me make sure I'm doing my
math right, too. It was 33 points of damage is
what you did before, right?
MATT: Correct.
LAURA: 34.
TRAVIS: 33.
MATT: It was 15 plus 18, so it's 33.
MARISHA: Okay, and then--
MATT: You just took another 20 points of poison
damage.
MARISHA: I am unconscious.
SAM: What?! Way to go, Mee-ster Fjord.
TRAVIS: Yeah, don't anybody else hit it.
LAURA: Oh god, please don't pick up Beau.
MATT: Beau falls onto the ground, arms limp,
covered in this toxic substance. That ends your
turn, Fjord?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I cast Regret.
(laughing)
MARK: I cast Major Regret at 5th-level.
MATT: Okay, so it is now the troll's turn. The
troll does not regenerate because you did acid
damage to it with your last attack, which prevents
it from regaining any hit points.
MARK: That was not me meta-gaming, chat.
MATT: However, it's still currently clutching the
body of Febron under its arm. It's going for a
straight bolt, it looks down and sees Beau
unconscious, uses its action to pick Beau up under
the other arm--
LAURA: No! Goddamn it.
MARK: It doesn't have to move to do it, does it?
MATT: Nope. Now it's going to use its full
movement. That's 30, it is right where the marker
is right there.
LAURA: --without killing Beau, because we can't
attack it?
SAM: We have to stop it with magic, or nets.
MARISHA: Anyone have a Hold Monster situation?
MATT: Yeah, this is a pickle, guys.
TRAVIS: You didn't really like that character that
much, did you?
MARISHA: You know!
MATT: That ends the troll's turn. Caleb, you're
up.
MARISHA: Haven't even gotten her backstory yet.
LIAM: I will use my movement first. I want to get
as close as I can, which is 15 feet-- or, no, you
said the closer we get?
MATT: Right there is when you start getting to
rough terrain, so that's as far as you get-- which
the troll is not affected by, you've noticed that
it's in its home turf.
LIAM: Yeah, you know, I went through a whole range
of emotions because first I was going to try to
hold it, but then the guy was dead, so I was like
fuck it, I'll switch to a Fire Bolt, but then he
grabbed Beau, so I am going to use the Glove of
Blasting and cast Scorching Ray on it, because I
can't reach for anything better.
LAURA: No, but what if it makes it pus its thing
and then it hits Beau and she dies?!
MARK: Every time it gets hit, even by spells.
LAURA: Don't damage it!
LIAM: Yeah?
TRAVIS: That's what happened to Febron.
MARISHA: We need like a hold thing--
LIAM: I don't have that.
TRAVIS: I don't either. I mean, I got something
that holds, but it damages, too.
MATT: What are you doing, Caleb?
LIAM: I'm going to cast Magic Missile on its
head.
MATT: Magic Missile on its head?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll for the damage on
that.
SAM: Beau dies.
LIAM: No, I'm going to cast-- fucksticks. I'm
going to cast Haste on Nott. That's what I do.
MATT: Okay. You are now holding concentration on
Haste. Nott, you feel suddenly the world slows
ever so slightly and you feel this burst of
adrenaline in your body.
LAURA: Do you have a healing potion?
SAM: No.
MATT: That's your turn.
MARISHA: I do.
MATT: Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay. How close can I get?
MARISHA: Man, I was hoping to stun it, guys, I'm
sorry.
TALIESIN: It was a good plan.
ASHLEY: Fuck, that's not going to work.
SAM: Caleb?
LIAM: Yeah. Your AC is up, an extra action.
ASHLEY: All right, well, I would like to rage. I'm
going to scream out, in a super intimidating voice.
MATT: Don't forget, if you rage and don't attack
or are attacked by the end of your next turn, you
lose your rage.
ASHLEY: Oh shit.
MATT: So if you're not planning to attack it, or
if there's not going to be something attacking
you, you're losing a rage for the day, so keep
that in mind.
MARK: You just need to take damage, like get hit
by something.
MATT: It's either attack or be attacked, you don't
have to take damage necessarily.
TALIESIN: The acid will do full damage.
SAM: Pus flew out of it.
MARISHA: I'm sweating.
ASHLEY: Oh my god, you're amazing.
MARISHA: Sorry, audience.
MATT: So it's taking damage. So it's you attacking
or taking damage.
ASHLEY: Okay, fuck. Shit. Okay. Well, I'm not
going to take it back.
LAURA: Can you just grapple it?
ASHLEY: That's as far as I can go.
MATT: Yeah. Unfortunately, you're starting to get
through some sludge.
TALIESIN: You can dash and burn your action.
MATT: You can, yeah.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'll do that.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: You guys know where he's taking me.
LAURA: Potentially.
MATT: That's as close as you can get right there.
ASHLEY: Am I within ten feet of it?
MATT: You are.
ASHLEY: Okay. Can I use necrotic shroud, then, if
I use that as the action to run?
MATT: You don't have an action to use it anymore,
unfortunately.
ASHLEY: Okay. Can I just yell at it?
MATT: Yeah. What do you yell? I give you two bonus
actions.
ASHLEY: Super intimidating. Oh, but then I've got
to fucking attack something. All right, I'm going
to be super intimidating and say: Drop it!
MATT: Make an intimidation check.
TRAVIS: No!
MARK: No! I said no!
MARISHA: Roll a 20.
LAURA: 20! Oh, so close!
ASHLEY: Okay, that's intimidation. Intimidation is
minus two.
TRAVIS: How?
ASHLEY: I look so mean because my charisma's so
low.
MATT: Well, it's charisma-based, but depending on
the intimidation, you can use your strength
modifier instead.
ASHLEY: 17.
MATT: Okay, with your strength modifier?
TALIESIN: No, without the strength modifier.
TRAVIS: You can use your str--
ASHLEY: Oh I can use my strength!
MATT: It makes sense, and it's how we did it in
the last campaign, too. It's one of the rules that
they say you can use for your campaign. Charisma
or strength for your intimidation because it makes
sense for you.
ASHLEY: Oh yes, okay! Okay, okay, okay!
MATT: My favorite Pike line, by the way, in
Pillars Of Eternity.
MARISHA: I was just thinking that as well!
TALIESIN and MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay.
ASHLEY: Okay! 22!
MATT: 22, all right.
MARISHA: I died when I heard that.
MATT: Okay, it turns around and glances at you and
it looks shaken. I'll say, for the purposes of
this, it's frightened of you until the end of your
next turn.
ASHLEY: Okay.
LAURA: It's going to keep running away from you.
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: It's all happening like this.
MATT: Does that finish your turn, Yasha?
ASHLEY: Can I like slap myself?
MATT: Unfortunately--
ASHLEY: Does that not work? Shit. Wasted a rage.
MATT: It's now Kiri's turn. Kiri holding a
dagger--
MARISHA: Kiri be my savior!
SAM: Aw Kiri.
MATT: She just holds the dagger. That's Kiri's
turn.
MARISHA: Yeah, Kiri.
MATT: And shouts, (like Jester) "Fuck!" Jester,
it's your turn.
LAURA: Can I get within 60 feet of it?
MATT: Yeah, you're within 60 feet.
LAURA: Awesome! I'm going to cast Healing Word on
Beau.
MATT: Oh shit. Okay.
LAURA: As my bonus action. Healing Word, so you
regain 1d4 plus four hit points.
LIAM: Wow.
LAURA: Seven points!
MATT: So you are conscious.
MARISHA: Oh! I'm conscious!
MARK: Being grappled by a troll, one thing at a
time.
MARISHA: Seven hit points, right?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Modern Literature!
LIAM: Lie down, play dead.
TRAVIS: We don't know what that is.
MARISHA: I'm going to wake up, see my situation
and go (gasps) and play dead.
MATT: Okay, so when we come to your turn, you
can do that. You come to consciousness, and you're
like (panting) and your body hurts, there's all
this stinging from the toxin burning your skin and
flesh. You're chucked under and you can feel the
claws digging into part of your thigh and side as
you're being run along by this giant troll
creature. It smells awful; this heavy scent
of rotting citrus and fungus that's permeating
from its body. That finishes your turn, Jester?
LAURA: That was my bonus.
MATT: That was your bonus, you still have your
action.
LAURA: But I don't think I can do anything. I
guess I'll hold an attack, I'll hold--
MATT: Sacred Flame?
LAURA: Yeah, I'll hold Sacred Flame until Beau is
dropped and far enough away.
MATT: You got it. Holding there, Cali, you're up.
MARK: How close can I get to it with the difficult
terrain? Can I get next to Yasha?
MATT: You can get that close right now with the
speed of 30 feet, yeah.
MARK: No, it's fine. I will get there and she
twitches a little bit. Come on! Quickened Levitate
on Beau. I'm going to try and lift Beau up. If
there's a tree line above, I'm going to try and
fling her up to the tree line.
MATT: Interesting! For the purposes of this, make
an arcana check and this is going to be your
attempt to break the grapple of the troll.
MARISHA: Come on, Cali!
MATT: Ten. Not very good at arcana.
LAURA: Maybe?
TRAVIS: What?!
MATT: Two! Fucking! You're a lucky son of a bitch!
It has a plus four on its strength roll.
MARK: So (whoop).
MARISHA: Calianna!
MATT: Ripping from the grip of the troll, Beau
gets lifted into the air, and is now hovering there.
LAURA: Is she far enough away?
MARK: Is there a tree line that I can send her to
so she can grab on?
MATT: Yeah. You can do that.
LAURA: Oh my god.
MARK: Grab on!
TALIESIN: It's like in Willow with the stick.
Woo!
LAURA: When she is far enough away, I cast Sacred
Flame.
MARK: For my action, I'm going to do another Acid
Splash because that was a bonus because of
quickened.
MATT: Beau is now lifted up into the tree. You're
just within reach of branches when it comes to
your turn.
SAM: Okay, everything's fine now.
LIAM: I mean she's half melted, but...
MATT: I'm going to be honest, you almost killed
her, man. Scorching Ray if those all had hit,
Beau's dead. I was like, oh fuck.
LIAM: We got to cut that dead weight, man.
MATT: I got real nervous. Magic Missile would have
done the same, too, because it's a splash per
missile.
MARISHA: I have blackmail material on you,
motherfucker.
MATT: Go for it. Dex save for you. Natural 20, and
then for you dex save as well. That is an eight.
LAURA: Okay, so you get hit with 2d8.
MATT: Yes.
LAURA: Nine points!
MATT: Splashes out. No one is close enough to be
impacted by the effect.
TRAVIS: How's Febron?
MATT: Febron's dead. Febron's like--
TRAVIS: A soggy KFC drumstick.
MATT: Kind of! His arms and legs are dangling
behind as it's dragging him through. It's pretty rough.
TALIESIN: Does the radiant damage seem to have a
particular effect?
MATT: Not beyond anything else.
TALIESIN: All right.
LAURA: We should just let him go, huh?
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARK: Get out of here!
MATT: Ending Cali's turn; Nott, you're up.
SAM: I'm up? Okay, is there anything in melee
range with it? No.
MATT: Currently no.
SAM: I'll move within 30 feet.
MATT: That's as close as you can get right there.
That's not quite within 30 feet.
SAM: That's as close as I can get?
LIAM: Nott is double speed and has a ring on for
water walking.
MATT: For water walking, right. I'll say, for that
purpose, it does give you the extra movement
there. So now you're just within 30 feet.
SAM: I don't know that we're letting it go, so I'm
going to cast Tasha's Hideous Laughter on it.
Throw out a little piece of pastry and I'll yell
to it: What's a swamp frog's favorite drug?
Croak-aine!
(groaning)
SAM: They're not winners, guys.
MATT: Wisdom save is a 13. What's your DC?
SAM: It's a 14.
MATT: 14, it fails! It immediately falls prone,
laughing with the corpse of Febron being flailed
about in the air as it's spinning. The legs and
arms--
SAM: I'll use my extra action to attack.
MATT: Well technically, you can only do the bonus
action to attack if you use the attack action.
SAM: This is an extra attack action.
MATT: Oh! Because you're hasted! That's right!
Sorry, I was thinking of the bonus action, you're
correct.
SAM: I rolled a 16 plus seven, 23.
MATT: That hits.
SAM: Because it's prone do I get advantage or
anything?
LAURA: No, you get disadvantage.
SAM: Oh, natural 20, so it still hits, 23. But do
I get sneak attack? No. Because it's prone, no.
MATT: No, because you do not have advantage on the
attack, unfortunately.
SAM: Oh, look. it's a ten to hit.
MATT: Nice.
SAM: I mean ten points of damage.
MATT: It sinks into it.
SAM: I don't get a bonus action off of that
attack?
MATT: You do because it's an attack action.
SAM: Okay, I'll fire again. Natural 20 and a 20,
just a straight 20.
MATT: Okay, that hits. To two? Oh man, that
sucks.
SAM: Another seven points of damage.
MATT: Seven points of damage. That finishes your
turn, Nott, well done. On the ground you're firing
both of those. They're sticking inside, these
sprays of poison toxin out of his body as it's
laughing on the ground. For Tasha's Hideous
laughter, does it get a chance to break?
SAM: Let me see, at the end of each of its turns
or each time it takes damage, a target can make a
wisdom saving throw.
MATT: Nope, that was a two.
SAM: Target has advantage on that save if it's
triggered by that damage.
MATT: The second roll was a 16, so it succeeds. It
fell prone, gave you disadvantage on the attacks,
and then got out of your spell. Lesson learned.
SAM: Nice. Right, good to know.
MATT: But it is prone. That finishes your turn,
Nott. Molly.
TALIESIN: Where is the little bird?
MATT: Right here.
TALIESIN: There's really not much I can do here,
so I'm going to--
TRAVIS: Send it packing, Molly.
TALIESIN: I got nothing I can do.
LAURA: Then get the fuck out of here.
SAM: (Infernal voice) Get the fuck out of here.
TALIESIN: Well, I can do that, I'm going to do one
more attempt to do a Devil's Tongue.
TRAVIS: What does it sound like?
TALIESIN: (demonic) Scoot, scoot! Scoot!
MATT: It rolled a three minus one, so it succeeds.
It takes what type of psychic damage?
TALIESIN: Oh, wow, holy cow. I'm not used to it
working. 5th-level, so hey, look at that, it
actually has gone up. 2d4 psychic damage. That's
four points of damage and it has disadvantage on
its next attack roll.
MATT: Interesting, okay, so psychic damage strikes
it and it does not spray the venomous toxin upon
receiving the psychic damage. But it is grabbing
its head, now the laughter has subsided.
TALIESIN: Brain freeze.
MATT: It's trying to get back to its feet. That
finishes your turn, Molly?
TALIESIN: That's all I got.
MATT: Beau, you're up in the trees. Fjord, you're
on the ground.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: You're levitating.
MARISHA: I am levitating.
LAURA: Can you try and hold on to the branch?
MARISHA: Yeah, can I scootch and perch up on the
branch?
MATT: Sure, you still have the levitation spell on
you, so if you were to leap, you'd just glide.
LIAM: Marry Poppins!
MARISHA: I grip the tree branch with my thighs,
I'm going to force grip it.
MATT: Okay, so you're on the branch there.
MARISHA: Yeah, side saddle and then I'm going to--
I don't know why I'm acting like I'm drawing a bow
like I'm a bow user because I've never been a bow
user, but my name is Beau. I'm going to take two
shurikens and do that.
TRAVIS: Hadouken!
MARISHA: First attack, don't fuck me Gil, 15.
MATT: 15 just hits.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: When it is prone you have disadvantage, so
roll again to attack. It's a ranged attack.
MARISHA: Oh wow, that's 14.
MATT: 14 just misses. It sinks into the swamp mud
next to it.
MARISHA: Bummer, second one, natural 20.
MATT: One more time because this has disadvantage.
MARISHA: 14.
MATT: Okay, so that does hit, roll damage on the
second one.
MARISHA: Which is a d4 we've said, correct?
MATT: That is correct.
LIAM: Oh, cocked. Super cocked. More!
MARISHA: Sure, I'll take that. That's a ten.
MATT: Ten?
MARISHA: Yeah, damage.
MATT: Four plus--
MARISHA: Four plus six, my attack bonus, right?
MATT: Damage bonus.
MARISHA: My damage bonus. Oh I'm sorry, eight.
MATT: Eight, that's what I thought. Eight points
of damage. The shuriken sinks into its chest;
another spray of toxin. Nothing in the vicinity to
take the damage, that finish your turn?
MARISHA: I have a bonus, right?
MATT: You do.
MARISHA: But I can't do a range.
MATT: No, it's only unarmed. I think that's your
turn.
TALIESIN: Glug glug.
TRAVIS: Glug glug?
MARISHA: I don't have a healing potion.
TRAVIS: She doesn't have a glug glug.
MATT: Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: I'll move five feet closer towards el
troll, and I'll say: Get the fuck out of here! And
I'll Eldritch Blast twice.
MATT: Go for it. Disadvantage on each strike.
TRAVIS: That's going to miss anyway, and the
second one. They both miss.
MATT: They both go passing right over its body as
it's trying to get up. It slips for a second, and
what would've hit, it ducks out of the way just in
time and both of them arc off, hitting nothing.
TRAVIS: You get your ass out of this forest!
MATT: That finishes your turn. It's now the
troll's turn. It gets up, half its movement, and
it's going to run 15 feet this way and then a full
action run for another 30 feet, and it's darting
off with the corpse of Febron under its arm. It
has its prize and it's running off into the swamp.
It's hurting, but you're watching its flesh stitch
together a little more and starting to heal up
from some of the wounds.
TRAVIS: Yeah, get the fuck on out! Nobody wants
you here, anyway!
MATT: Is anybody pursuing?
LIAM: Yes, it's in my range. I will walk 15 feet forward
and cast Fire Bolt from here. It's a 120-foot range.
MATT: All right, go ahead and roll for that.
LIAM: Oh that's not the d20, hold on. That's a
natural one.
MATT: Nope. The Fire Bolt vanishes beyond its
space there. Anybody else with a ranged attack
that wants to try and make it?
SAM: Sure, I'll take a shot.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: At disadvantage?
MATT: At this range it is.
SAM: 12.
MATT: 12 misses. It's starting to hit the mist and
its form is starting to become a little harder to see
and it's running with such an intense speed.
SAM: I've got one more hasted action.
MATT: You do. And a bonus action attack if you
want to.
SAM: Terrible. 14?
MATT: 14? No, just misses.
SAM: Okay, and a bonus attack action. 16.
MATT: Roll damage. It does strike.
SAM: Hey, that's one!
MARISHA: Kill it!
SAM: Eight points of damage.
MATT: Eight points of damage. It manages to catch
it. It's still running. Fjord, you're the only one
with a proper ranged attack here if you want to
try.
TRAVIS: Sure, I'll do it. I'll take two more
Eldritch Blasts at it. At disadvantage, right?
That's a natural one. My bad. 19. 18! That'll hit,
that's 25.
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.
TRAVIS: 1d10. That's nine plus four. 13 points of
Eldritch Blast.
MARISHA: He's got our gold!
MATT: It gets blasted. Still going.
TRAVIS: You fucking piece of shit!
MARISHA: How far away is he right now?
MATT: Well, now it takes its next turn to do a
full 60-foot run.
MARISHA: I couldn't jump one more and try to get
him a little--
LAURA: I don't think he's going down with it.
MATT: At this point, the fact that you guys are
having a hard time hitting it and the rate that
it's healing, you're starting to think--
MARISHA: Oh, he's healing?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Don't you dare tell us what we're starting
to think!
MATT: I'm just saying, you can continue to pursue
if you want to.
MARISHA: No.
LAURA: But we'd be idiots.
MARK: But the implication is: You really don't.
SAM: We know where he lives!
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's right. We know where his
hovel is. So lesson learned.
LAURA: Oh, there's a dead person I'm talking to!
SAM: We have one more question!
LAURA: I turn around and run back to the dead
person.
TRAVIS: Beau is just: You fucking--!
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm doggy-paddling through the
air.
SAM: Will you let our friend down?
MARK: Oh yeah, sorry Ms. Beau!
MARISHA: I slow fall.
TRAVIS: Still one more question.
LIAM: Matt, we're still in the middle of nowhere
at this point, or we're--?
MATT: You guys are right at the edge of where
these bodies have been propped up as a warning,
which, from what Febron told you, was placed up
to prevent people from coming towards the safe house.
LIAM: We don't have our guide anymore. Ask this
one which way to go.
LAURA: Oh, this isn't the safe house?
SAM: This is the gate of the safe house.
MATT: You're starting to get close to it, as far
as you know.
LIAM: As far as we know.
MARISHA: If these are the warnings.
SAM: Specific directions.
LAURA: All right. I guess that's what I'll ask it,
then, because that's all I can ask.
MATT: As you approach the head is tracking you the
whole time.
LAURA: Sorry, we got distracted, there was a troll
that came and stole our guide. I think you might
have known him. Anyway, which way is the actual
safe house that we're trying to get to?
MATT: The head curves off to the right between the
tree that it's stapled to and the other body
that's propped up. "100 feet that way."
LAURA: Oh shit. We totally could have seen it!
SAM: I can see it, it's right there!
MATT: You don't see any safe house. You don't see
anything like that. At that point the head (sighs)
continues back.
LAURA: Well, at least we know it's 100 feet, so we
can search for it.
TALIESIN: Are there actual knives stuck in--
MATT: Looks to be two shortswords have been jammed
into it.
TALIESIN: Shortswords or daggers?
MATT: Shortswords.
LAURA: Do they have anything in their pockets?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
TALIESIN: Yeah, we're looting these bodies right
now. That's nice.
LAURA: Investigation, you say? 14?
MATT: Okay. Rummaging through the pockets and the
various baubles you can find, you find four pieces
of gold, a handful of about 12 silver-- this is on
the halfling-- a charm, looks like it's made from
a dried animal foot of some kind, like a dog or a
coyote.
TALIESIN: (hiccups)
MATT: (imitates a hiccup)
LIAM: It's cursed hiccups.
MATT: And a note that's keeping track of
locations, but it's mostly soaked now and the ink
has all run, and you make out bits of words here
and there, but it makes no sense to you.
LAURA: I'm taking it.
SAM: Give me the charm.
LAURA: Are you going to check if it's magic?
SAM: Yes.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: I don't check if it's magic.
LAURA: I'm going to use Mending on the note. Oh
wait, it doesn't make the words come back.
Remember, we already figured this part out.
MATT: Yeah, the paper is now dry and a full piece
of paper, but the ink is still as smeared and lost
as it was before.
SAM: Can I look at the words?
MATT: The few words you make out involve a time.
One of them says two hours past the noon sun,
that's the most you make out of one sentence. Part
of it's smeared. It's like Steve Martin in The
Jerk trying to read the love letter. (gibberish)
The other things you can make out are four men
required, and then another one saying something
about Shady-- and that's all you make out.
LAURA: Shady grove. I bet the Shady grove.
SAM: Shadycreek.
LIAM: I'll say while Jester was doing all that,
Caleb sat down and took out his spellbook and
started ritual casting Detect Magic.
TRAVIS: Yeah, in fact, could we could take a short
rest while Caleb's doing that since that was a
little gnarlier than we anticipated?
LIAM: Well, maybe after I do that because I'm
tapped.
MARISHA: My body hurts.
LAURA: I'm going to heal you.
MATT: Okay, we'll take a short rest here and while
we're doing that we'll also take a break. Restroom
here. We'll be back here in just a few minutes.
Thank you for kicking with us. We have our
Wyrmwood giveaway today. We have a fantastic
lacewood deck box. Lacewood, it's got a really
cool texture. It looks like a chainmail. It's one
of the cooler-looking woods, in my opinion. This
is going to be a giveaway for one of you lucky
winners in the chat in the US or Canada, excluding
Quebec. Head on over to the Twitch chat to enter
the phrase tonight. Enter only once or you will be
disqualified. However, for tonight, the word is
"bird." Bird is the word.
MATT, TRAVIS, MARISHA, MARK, TALIESIN, ASHLEY:
(singing) Bird, bird, bird. Bird is the word.
B-b-b-bird, bird, bird.
MATT: We'll be back in a few minutes, guys. We'll
see you then. Enjoy the break time, enjoy the
rewatch of our awesome D&amp;D Beyond video. Back here
in a minute.
MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome back! I just
dropped my note. I'll pick it up in a second. So
before we get into it, we're going to announce the
winner of our giveaway! The winner of our
fantastic Wyrmwood giveaway is the_bowmeister.
(surfer voice) The_bowmeister, enjoy your
Wyrmwood! (normal voice) So congratulations, we'll
get that sent out to you ASAP.
LIAM: That's very Wildemount, the_bowmeister.
MATT: The_bowmeister? Ja, possibly would be.
Back into the game we go.
MARISHA: Oh, now you got it on Mark!
MATT: Ugh! (blood spraying)
TALIESIN: Roll a d4.
SAM: Just real quick, I wanted to give a quick
shoutout to my brother-in-law, Peter Habib of Mr.
Fantastic Music. They did the track for the
animated thing.
TRAVIS: So good!
ASHLEY: So good! I love it.
SAM: (Scottish accent) I love it!
MATT: Indeed. Bringing us back into the game. You
guys have taken your short rest, healed up a bit,
and recovered from the chaos of the swamp you
managed to trudge through. You've lost your guide,
but you've survived thus far. The rest of you, at
least. What would you like to do? Oh, you were casting--
LIAM: Scorching Ray on Beau.
MATT: Yes.
MARK: Finish her off.
TRAVIS: Finish her.
MARISHA: I trusted you, motherfucker.
LIAM: I told you everything. You have to die!
MATT: Utilizing Detect Magic, you were saying--
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: On?
LIAM: Well, it's like blacklight, so on everything
on what they were looking at.
MATT: Nothing magical within what was found on the
bodies, no.
LIAM: Is Nott glowing in any kind of way that I am
not used to?
MATT: Correct.
TRAVIS: How far does that extend?
LIAM: 30 feet, I believe.
TRAVIS: It occurred to me from what your friend
said that this location might not be entirely
above ground any longer.
LAURA: Mm-hmm. My dead friend? Yeah, I think it
might be hidden or something.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Two hours past, what was it, noon?
MARISHA: Two past noon.
TRAVIS: Maybe it only becomes visible at a certain
time?
MARISHA: Four men required.
LIAM: You, my good friend, would you walk with me
in the direction that the dead person said that
this entrance is in? Before my magic runs out.
MARISHA: Why do you feel the need to call me a
good friend?
LIAM: You're right. Person that I work with, would
you walk over before my spell runs out so that I
can use it to help the group?
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Why don't we all head in that direction,
maybe? In a large, well knit group.
TRAVIS: Since there are things that'll be snagging
bitches when we get separated.
MARK: Is it dark, or is it--?
MATT: No, at this point it's later afternoon,
maybe. It's like two or three o'clock.
MARISHA: Maybe like, two past noon?
MATT: Maybe.
LIAM: Caleb knows exactly what time it is. Liam
likes to burn his friends.
SAM: Caleb also likes to burn his friends.
LAURA: Aw.
TALIESIN: (singing) One thing, we've got it
coming.
MATT: You left early enough in the day where you
aren't threatened for dusk for another few hours.
You guys continue on past the tree?
LIAM: Towards the 100-foot mark that the--
SAM: Should we scan for traps?
LAURA: Probably.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARK: Caleb's Detect Magic would probably pick up
traces on my bracelet.
MATT: That's true.
LIAM: So it glows.
MATT: Outside of the space around you or the
trinkets found within the corpses, nothing. But
you do see the mild glow from the bracelet on
Cali's arm.
LAURA: Hey Cali, can I ask you a question?
SAM: 19.
MARK: Sure, Jester!
LAURA: On check traps, sorry.
SAM: No, go ahead.
LAURA: This bowl that we're looking for.
MARK: Yep.
LAURA: You said it was used in rituals.
MARK: I think it is, yeah. It's more that I know
that it's part of a set that I know this cult were
looking for and I want to stop them getting it.
SAM: Like a tea set?
LAURA: Were you ever used in rituals with these
bowls?
MARK: Kind of. Not ones involving this bowl. But
other rituals. God, this sounds really horrible to
say. They weren't nice people. They kill people
and I kind of helped them because I didn't know
any better. You got to remember, Serissa, the
priestess who raised me, she told me all this
stuff about the Tyrant, about the Queen, and I
thought that that was just what the world was
like, you know, I thought that that was good, and
she told me that these other people were bad, and
thieves, and that they were being killed for
righteous purpose.
LAURA: Who were the bad people?
SAM: What queen?
MARK: The Scaled Tyrant. They call her the Queen.
She's the Queen of Dragons. Five draconic heads
represent her, and that kind of thing.
SAM: So not a real queen?
MARK: Maybe she's a real queen, I don't know. I
just always heard to her referred to as the
Queen.
ASHLEY: She has five heads?
MARK: That's what the stories say. One for each
color of dragon.
LIAM: Would I know about this?
MATT: Make a religion check.
LAURA: Oh, I know about re-- No. I don't know
anything about religion.
MATT: You can make a religion check if you want to
try and recall information.
LIAM: 13.
MATT: 13. You've heard of the Scaled Tyrant. You
don't know a whole lot of information. But you
know, through your research, that one of the
entities that partook in elements of the Calamity.
LIAM: Obviously not part of the okayed deities of
the Empire.
MATT: No. Not at all. Is definitely considered one
of the betrayer gods in the Calamity, though very
selfish and is considered by many to be the
patron-- whether it be the mother of, or the
patron of, chromatic dragons.
MARK: Serissa, the priestess who found me, she was
nice to me, but she would torture and kill people
in her name.
LAURA: What kind of people?
MARK: Merchants, people who had things the cult
wanted and they wanted to take, and they said it
was rightfully theirs. But I've learned that it's
not anymore. And yeah, I helped them do that.
That's why I want to stop these bowls. I want to
stop them doing this to other people.
LAURA: They are super evil bowls?
MARK: I don't think so. I think they're like
magically minor, like a little bit magic, but as
long as they're not used by the wrong people they
should be fine.
ASHLEY: What do you plan to do with the bowl once
you get it?
MARK: Destroy it if I can. Take it and hide it
somewhere that they can't find it. They raised me,
and I learned a lot, and I know what they're
capable of and I feel responsible for the things I
helped them do. So I feel like it's my
responsibility to stop them.
ASHLEY: How was the bowl used in the ritual?
MARK: It's not one I was familiar with, but I just
know that it's part of a set. There's six of them,
I think. Different things that they all use.
MARISHA: Are you trying to look for all six of
them?
MARK: If I can, but they're hard to find. The cult
works in shadows, they keep themselves really
secretive. I wasn't allowed outside of our temple
where I was raised. They gave me everything I
wanted, but I wasn't allowed outside, so I guess I
can be a bit naive about a few things.
LAURA: I don't think being stuck inside makes you
naive. I mean, I know some people that were stuck
inside that know lots of things.
MARK: Really? I hope that I can meet them. I feel
like I need to learn a lot more, you know? So many
people treat me-- I ask if I can trust them, they
say yes, and then they trick me. Or they use me to
do bad things.
LAURA: That's not okay.
MARK: I know, right!
LIAM: She's talking about herself.
TRAVIS: Cali, do you plan to go back to Port
Damali after this if you're successful?
MARK: Maybe, yeah. I'll try and get away, I guess.
I've got a friend there, a legionnaire. He rescued
me. He's a dwarf called Grim. I'm sure he'd help
me find a secure place for the artifact. I don't
know. Yeah. I guess I'll try and find somewhere to
hide them and keep on trying to stop these guys.
TRAVIS: Absolutely. Well, let's try our luck.
LIAM: It seems like a very large task for one
person.
MATT: At this point, Nott has completed quite a
thorough sweep of the vicinity as you move
forward. No traps. You do notice, as you head into
this next open clearing, there's thick patches of
vines and roots that descend into a circular space
that is awash with swamp water and general bog rot
that is floating over the surface, like a moat has
formed naturally around this giant banyan tree
about 30 or 40 feet across from side to side. It
is gargantuan. The roots rise up, and merge at
different places where the tree itself begins to
expand about ten feet up before it reaches out and
curves and carves into the earth before
disappearing beneath the water, the still, awful
swamp water that surrounds it. You also see,
across the front of its trunk in the vicinity, at
least the bits where the sunlight comes through
from the rather choked boughs above that are
shading the area quite heavily, six more bodies
tied to branches and roots with rope and vine.
Their bodies covered with similar wounds as the
ones you inspected before. Some are slumped
against the base of the roots. Some are held up
and vines wrapped around them and they are stapled
at an angle onto the sides of the tree. They're
all currently placed as a warning to either notify
or fend off anyone who would wander too close.
LAURA: I don't think the fish people like the safe
house being here.
MARISHA: Maybe they want the safe house for
themselves?
LAURA: Maybe this tree is sacred and it was being
used as a safe house and that's not okay.
TRAVIS: Certainly not welcome.
TALIESIN: Would have been used as a safe house for
awhile I imagine, though.
LIAM: The tree is not giving off anything, no?
MATT: Nope.
LAURA: Cali, can you make this water around the
tree go away?
MARK: Yeah, actually, I think I should be able to
do something about that. I'll Shape Water and I
can push it around in a five foot cube, so I can
part it a little bit. Or I can turn it clear as well.
MATT: You can part areas of it, but it's about 15
feet across, as far as the width of it and it
changes in width depending on which place on the
tree you head. It is, essentially, a waist-deep
area of water. So you could move with it and--
MARK: Can I shallow it and disperse it, so it
still has water, but it shrink it down five feet
so it's not as deep to walk through?
MATT: You can bring it to just past knee height
within a very localized area to you.
MARK: That's about the best I can do Jester, I'm
sorry.
LAURA: Oh, no, that's really impressive.
SAM: I feel like Caleb could have done it.
LAURA: Caleb, can you do that, too?
LIAM: No. I do not know how to do it.
LAURA: He can't do it, Nott.
SAM: He's being modest. He could do it.
LIAM: Nott, I have limitations. I can do many
things like you--
SAM: Bren!
LAURA: Should we try to go towards the tree?
Towards all the dead bodies?
TRAVIS: Is the water around the tree in a circle,
like it pans out from around the side?
MATT: Kind of. There's a big clearing around this
tree. It's natural for the most part, but it looks
like this area is centered around the tree.
MARISHA: Do I see anything like landmarks or
anything out of place surrounding the tree?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LIAM: Is the water up to our waist now?
MATT: Well no, you haven't submerged in the water
yet. But it looks about waist high as you lower
the water level.
MARISHA: It's all right. 14.
MATT: You do glance up and see a band of teal
fabric tied around one of the branches or the
edges of the roots at the top part about ten feet
up that has been weathered and dirtied from just
being there for a long time. A lot of the color
has faded. But you just barely pick out its location.
MARISHA: It's just one little ribbon?
MATT: It looks like it might have been a bandana
that was wrapped and tied around a root above.
MARISHA: I'm going to see if I can climb the tree
and get to it.
MATT: Okay. So you wade through the water.
TRAVIS: I'll go with her, just to accompany.
TALIESIN: Nott, do you want to walk on top of the
water for a bit and keep an eye for anything
underneath the surface?
SAM: Well, what if something grabs me from under
the surface?
TALIESIN: Well, what if something grabs you from
the shore? Like a troll.
TRAVIS: Or when, if someone grabs you from the
shore.
SAM: All right, I'll walk around.
MARK: Is Nott a nickname for Bren?
TALIESIN: Yes.
MARK: That makes a lot more sense because you keep
calling her Nott and I just didn't get it.
MARISHA: Sometimes we call her Nott Bren. Yeah.
MARK: Okay. I mean, sure.
TALIESIN: We were drunk at the time, it just sort
of happened.
LIAM: She's as small as a tree knot, you know,
so-- cute.
MARK: Oh, well Nott, if I'm allowed to call you
that--
SAM: Sure.
MARK: I can make the water clear so that you can
see if there's anything that could grab you.
SAM: Oh!
MARISHA: What was that thing you said about
honesty earlier? I can't remember.
LIAM: You don't know any of the fact that I almost
killed you, Marisha Ray.
MARISHA: I'm talking about before you almost
killed me when you had that great quote
about honesty earlier.
MATT: Beau, make an athletics check to try and
climb the tree.
LIAM: Yeah, what I was trying to do for us?
TRAVIS: Easiest to remember.
LIAM and LAURA: Yeah.
MARK: My wisdom is eight so I can't pick up on any
of this.
MATT: Athletics. To climb the tree.
LAURA: Huh? Damn.
MARISHA: Eight.
MATT: It takes a while to even get close, but the
general moisture in the air makes it slick and you
keep slipping down the side.
SAM: What's up there?
MARISHA: Can I have Fjord give me a boost?
MATT: You can try. Roll--
TRAVIS: There's a teal piece of fabric that's tied
up on a branch.
MATT: A tiny piece of teal fabric tied--
SAM: How far up?
MATT: Eight to ten feet up.
SAM: I'll just reach it with my Mage Hand.
MATT: (popping noise) Do you untie it?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: Okay. You pull it and you bring it down.
It's an old, starched, weathered bandana.
TALIESIN: Why don't you try pulling on the branch
that it was tied to?
SAM: All right.
TRAVIS: How deep is the water without the water
being dispersed? Near the base of the tree.
MATT: About three feet.
TALIESIN: The water is now crystal clear, by the
way.
MATT: Oh yeah, so now the water's clear and you
can see below there's thick sediment, muck, a few
bones of some wayward creature that long has been
left to rot beneath the water but there's nothing
living in there aside from toads, tadpoles, other
small slithering natural creatures that call the swamp home.
MARK: I will lower it, now that I've seen it's
clear, and I'll say: Well, I'm happy to step in
first. You guys were kind enough to bring me, I'm
happy to step through and make sure it's okay. I'll start.
MATT: Okay, so you make your way through, catching
up to Beau and Fjord who are at the base of the
tree. You get up to the base of the tree now. The
rest of you guys follow suit?
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: You all cross past the water path. You're
now at the base of the tree. You, Nott, have the
strange teal faded scarf now in your grasp.
SAM: It's just a scarf?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: Nothing else has happened?
SAM: You want me to pull on the branch?
TALIESIN: Pull on the branch that it was tied to.
ASHLEY: Yeah, maybe it'll open something.
SAM: I'll pull on that branch.
TRAVIS: Oh jeez.
SAM: Vigorously pull on it!
LIAM: Maybe there's two branches.
MATT: The gif machine.
SAM: Huh?
MATT: The gif machine, Sam Riegel.
SAM: (strained yelling)
MATT: Oh god. The branch itself is pretty sturdy.
The portions of the tree here do not bend very
much and it doesn't seem to react. The strength of
the Mage Hand isn't very strong.
LAURA: Are there any knots on the tree? Like
underneath where the ribbon was?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
TALIESIN: What? Where did that even go?
LAURA: It's right here.
TALIESIN: Oh.
LAURA: 12.
MATT: 12? Yeah. You glance around and as you were
placing your hands against part of it some of it
shifts, it wobbles. Now getting a glance, there's
a piece of weathered driftwood or separate wood
that has been pressed up and tucked behind some of
the roots to look like it's part of the tree. But
it's a little bit of a different texture, a
different type of wood and as you press on it, it
wiggles. You shift it--
TALIESIN: Traps!
LAURA: Check for traps, Nott.
SAM: All right.
MARK: Truly blessed with such wisdom.
SAM: I will check for traps.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
SAM: 16? 16.
MATT: 16. It does not appear to be trapped.
LAURA: I'm going to move it then.
SAM: Great.
MATT: You wiggle it out, pull it free and now you
can see about a four-foot carved hollow in the
tree that leads to a dark, lightless interior.
SAM: You did it!
LAURA: Well, you and Beau and me did it.
SAM: But you did it.
LAURA: Aww.
SAM: With my help.
LAURA: Right.
TRAVIS: Nicely done. Who's first?
MARISHA: I almost died today, motherfuckers, I
almost died.
TALIESIN: Do you want to throw some light in
here?
SAM: That was Caleb's fault.
MARISHA: That was Caleb's fault, exactly, and I
can't remember the thing he said about honesty and remembering.
LIAM: This is all meta conversation. You guys have
no idea that Liam almost used the wrong spell.
Caleb was on point.
MARK: I can go first and summon some light.
LAURA: You can do light?
MARK: Yeah.
SAM: Yeah, Caleb can do light too; it's not the
greatest.
TRAVIS: Wait, let's just hold on. I'll go in with
darkvision without setting off any lights that
might herald them.
LAURA: What if there's traps on the inside,
though?
TRAVIS: Then I'll get hurt.
MARK: Matt, I'll cast Light still behind these
guys, but it comes out of her draconic eye. She
brushes her hair to the side and she has a yellow
draconic eye on her left side.
MATT: All right. It glows like a torchlight in the
vicinity.
LAURA: Cali, you're so cool.
MARK: Thanks, Jester! You're so cute. I love it.
LAURA: Thank you! I love you.
MARK: Aww!
MATT: As you step inside, Fjord, you notice a
fairly well-cleared interior that smells of marsh
water and lamp oil. Glancing about, there are two
hooks on the wall that have been jammed in that
carry the top part of some sort of oil lantern
that has been shattered against the wall. The
glass itself is broken. The metal is bent and you
now can see there's some soaked lamp oil that has
fallen from those impacts that has hit the ground
on the wall nearby and is offering that additional
smell to the room. The floor is somewhat soggy
with moss and bits of sand and gravel as well as
the occasional heavy root that breaks through the
surface of that soft floor. There are some pieces
of broken wood slats, but besides that, the
chamber appears to be empty.
TRAVIS: I don't see anything inside here. Looks
like there was a broken lamp, so careful with fire.
MARK: There's got to be more here, right? This
can't be it.
TRAVIS: Yeah. I'll push in a little bit more.
MATT: Okay. You're now stepping into the chamber.
The chamber's about 30 feet wide. It's just round.
TRAVIS: Looking up?
MATT: You look up. The ceiling's about 12 feet
tall and there's some hanging roots that are
dangling from the top. It looks like it's been
carved away maybe.
MARISHA: Does it feel like it's bigger on the
inside?
MATT: No. It matches the size. It's probably about
two feet to three feet of thickness of the actual
tree trunk and the interior's hollow.
TRAVIS: Do I notice any furniture, articles,
clothing?
MATT: No. Make an investigation check if you want
to.
LAURA: Are there any trap doors on the floor?
TRAVIS: 17.
MATT: Okay. A couple things. Though you don't have
a sense of color-- are you the only one in the
chamber right now?
TRAVIS: I believe Cali.
ASHLEY: I was behind.
TALIESIN: Yeah, we're in there as well.
MATT: You went in there as well?
MARK: Yeah, to give them light.
MATT: Right. The rest of you guys step into the
chamber and the light comes in. What you failed to
see because it was a change of color becomes
immediately apparent. There are scattered splashes
of blood across areas of the walls inside. They're
dried, but dried enough to the point where they
haven't gone completely black and then
disintegrated. So this is relatively recent, weeks
maybe. As you guys are inspecting the space, there
are certain gashes against-- it looks like there
was definitely a fight and scuffle. The soft
ground here has signs of turbulent movement as
well as a number of smeared grooves in the ground
that snake and spiral about.
LIAM: Are there any immediate threats in there,
Fjord?
TRAVIS: Not that I can see.
MATT: Fjord, as you're glancing about answering
this question, you look down on the far north
corner of it and where some of the roots have
gathered and come down, there's one space where
you don't see the wall of the tree behind it. As
you move the root out of the way, there is an
actual hole about two and a half feet wide that
descends below the tree.
TRAVIS: Not any danger in the chamber, but it
looks like there's more to this room.
MARK: Does it look like they were dragging bodies
down there? The blood streaks and stuff.
TRAVIS: Could've been.
MARK: Do they lead there?
MARISHA: Yeah, do the tracks lead to the hole?
MATT: There are some spatters of blood and there
are some things that give the sign of being pulled
on as well as pieces and shards of wood, including
bits of porcelain, some object that had shattered
and broken. Looks like whatever may have been
within this chamber at some point, a lot of it's
been brought down there.
TRAVIS: Nott Bren, you're up.
SAM: I've got to go down there?
TRAVIS: Yep. By yourself.
LAURA: That's where the fish people live! Are
there fish scales on the ground?
MARK: Do you need light?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
SAM: That would help.
TALIESIN: I'll help with this one. Smelling the
air for fishy. Oh, doesn't matter anyway.
LAURA: 17.
MATT: You do manage to pull through. You do see a
small piece of thick scaled hide that was carved
off, probably as part of a scuffle.
LAURA: Fish skin!
MATT: It's pretty tough.
LAURA: It's tough.
MATT: It's salty.
LAURA: It's kind of salty.
MARISHA: Tuna? Salmon?
LAURA: Smells like fish.
TRAVIS: Brackish flesh?
LAURA: I'm going to put it in my bag.
TRAVIS: Gross.
MARISHA: Before we go down or as these guys go
down, can I take a lap and look at the bodies on
the outside and see if I recognize any of them?
MATT: Recognize any of the bodies?
MARISHA: The six bodies.
LIAM: Outside.
MATT: Okay. Glancing past and taking a look;
there's nobody that you've seen before that is
amongst this crew. They all appear to be darkly
dressed, generally to keep out of sight. You do
see two of the members there that have an
accumulation of neck tattoos. You've seen the ones
back in Zadash that were almost full bands of
designs. These individuals have only sections of
it. You start getting the idea that the more
they've worked with whatever organization that
work this is, the more completion they've had of
certain jobs depending on what the job is, a
certain type of individual acquires tattoos as a
sign of how long they've been there and how
successful they've been.
MARISHA: That's cool. Okay. So they all seem like
smugglers?
MATT: At one point possibly.
MARISHA: Can I do a quick round of their pockets?
MATT: Investigation check.
MARISHA: Okay. Just real quick!
MATT: With disadvantage, because it's quick.
LIAM: --and puts light up in the tree out there
with her.
MATT: What's that?
LIAM: I'm outside with her and I'm casting Dancing
Lights into the trees so that she can see better.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: 13.
MATT: 13. You manage to scrape away about 17 gold
pieces and five silver pieces.
MARISHA: I'll take that.
MATT: Before, as you pull off of it, you watch as
the lower half of the body sloughs off the torso
and you back away.
MARISHA: Sorry.
MATT: The smell is awful, as a lot of the interior
gas of the bloated corpse escapes into this
terrible sulfurous stench.
SAM: Gross.
MARISHA: Oh god.
LIAM: Please, we have been around death plenty of
times. Caleb throws up quietly into the water.
TALIESIN: Do you go back and forth?
TRAVIS: Well, only one place to go and that's
down.
SAM: Wait! I'm just going to take a quick minute
to stare into the eternal abyss of the dodecahedron.
TRAVIS: Yeah, sure.
LAURA: I just open up the bag so you can see it.
SAM: Oh my god what is in there?!
LAURA: We don't let Cali see it. Sorry, Cali.
MATT: Okay. You take a moment to focus and place
your hand on this lightly thrumming device. Your
vision is pulled into this universal space of
stars and gas and distant existences you've never
contemplated and there you see before you the
pulsing light of possibility. You reach out a hand
and grasp it and feel it enter your body and
you've acquired your fragment of possibility.
MARK: It doesn't take much to distract Cali. You
just point over there and she's like--
SAM: I'll take a swig and go down the hole.
MATT: The hole has chunks of rock and dirt as well
as a very interwoven network of roots coming down
from the tree, so it's fairly easy to climb down.
There is a little bit of that damp water and
moisture that seeped into the chamber previously
from just being near the swamp. It wasn't a thick
layer of water, maybe half an inch or so in the
actual portions of the chamber and some of it is
now heading down. As you're climbing down
carefully through this hole, you can feel it
running down your back and it's this cold swamp
water. I need you to make an athletics check as
you make your way down this chamber.
SAM: Not great. Just a check?
MATT: Yep. Just add your athletics.
SAM: Seven.
MATT: Seven. Okay. You begin to-- (grunts) and you
lose your grip and begin slide down like a slide.
SAM: (whispers) Yes. (screams)
MATT: (impact) You get about maybe 15 or so feet
before the back of the slide leaves you. You have
darkvision, so you see the interior of some sort
of chamber in the ground rocketing towards you--
SAM: I will throw out a feather and cast Feather
Fall.
MATT: Okay. And you gingerly land on your feet. No
damage taken. And no noise made either.
SAM: (breathing heavily)
MATT: Looking around you, you see the inside of a
natural rock chamber. You can hear in the distance
a rummaging sound, some shifting over from around
the corner. It seems like from where you're
landing the back is around you and then it curves
to the left. You see a faint puddle before you
lose vision and beyond that, you don't see
anything but you hear (shifting).
SAM: Coming towards me or just moving?
MATT: Just echoing around the side.
SAM: Cool.
MATT: You hear a (monster hissing).
SAM: Oh god.
MATT: Something clatter to the ground. What are
the rest of you guys doing?
TALIESIN: Do we hear the slip and the whoosh?
MATT: I don't think you heard anything, no.
LAURA: We should send a message to Nott and see
what she sees.
MARK: What, Bren?
MARISHA: Nott Bren, yeah.
LIAM: Yeah, I can do that.
MARK: Bren, are you down there? Hello?
SAM: Are you sending a message?
LIAM: Yeah, I am. I have just joined the group.
How are you doing down there, what do you see?
SAM: I will reply to that message.
LIAM: With you and me, it goes back and forth.
SAM: There's a creature down here. I don't want to
make any noise. If you're going to come down to
join me, use a rope.
LIAM: All right, we can do that. Just stay put,
don't go rushing in without us.
Is it one or more than one?
SAM: I don't know. I'll go rushing in and find
out.
LIAM: That's the opposite of what I said!
SAM: I'm going to gingerly creep around the
corner.
MATT: Make a stealth check for me, please.
LIAM: It's hard to resist sneaking in.
LAURA: Let's climb down.
SAM: 15.
MATT: You slowly make your way around the side.
This chamber appears to be kidney shaped. It
curves around the bend, and as you make your way
around the chamber, at the outskirts of your
darkvision, you begin to make out three shapes.
Humanoid torsos with long fins that extend from
where the elbows are, patchwork leather and bronze
armor pieces, as well as hints of shell jewelry
and bone. You can see one face as you peek around
the edge, and you can see this large, toothy
underbite, with this square jaw where these four
tendrils kind of dangle from the tip of its chin.
A single fin curves over the top of its head. No
nose, but two gleaming eyes that refract. What
little bit of light coming into the chamber from
something out of the visual range is giving off a
faint glow. The lower half of its body is a long
fish tail. It looks like that a nightmare-ish
merman would look like. It sits there clutching
some sort of long harpoon-like pike with a hook on
the end of it.
SAM: Are they waiting, are they talking, what are
they doing?
MATT: They're talking amongst themselves, and you
hear some sort of tearing sound, you peek around a
little further, and you can see a creature has
been dragged down here. A familiar one. A thick,
leathery-scaled body of a crocodile of some kind.
Not a large one, but a regular sized crocodile has
been dragged down here, and all three of them are
in the process of feasting on its body. They're
tearing into its flesh, and talking amongst
themselves in a language you don't understand.
Around the base of them, you see broken crates and
a few odds and ends are
resting on the ground, loosely discarded.
SAM: Any other entrances or exits?
MATT: From what you can see? You're kind of
peeking around the corner, you cannot see the
opposite end of where this curvature is without
possibly revealing yourself.
LIAM: It has been a while, what would you like us
to do?
SAM: Anywhere else to hide, or something to hide
behind?
MATT: Around that way? Not terribly. There are a
few outcropping walls, and at this point I would
say I could probably give you a visual.
LIAM: Already?
TRAVIS: I like what I'm hearing! Shark fins and
shit?! I'm a happy camper.
SAM: While you're setting the stage, I'll message
back up to them.
MARISHA: Oh, what is that, what are they riding?
They're riding like watery penises.
MATT: Nott, you're right there, curving around the
side.
SAM: Did I come down right where I am?
MATT: You landed right here and then made your way
around. This is where it drops you into the middle
of the chamber.
SAM: Got it. I'll radio back up to the top and
say: There are three mermen down here with
dangerous weapons. I am very outnumbered. Please
come quickly, you can reply to this message.
LIAM: Yeah, we've established that. Stay put,
don't move.
SAM: I'll cast Mage Hand and take a ball bearing
across the way, but not dropping it, just holding
it in place, just in case.
MATT: Okay. So who's going down?
LIAM: I drop Frumpkin down the shoot.
SAM: Oh Jesus, he's going to die!
LIAM: No, he's not.
LAURA: That's not a long fall for a cat.
TRAVIS: We're going to find out how far.
MARISHA: Not within like 50 feet.
LIAM: Yes, they can.
MATT: Yeah they can, most of them. Make an
acrobatics check for me.
LAURA: Can we start tying a rope off upstairs and
drop it down?
MATT: Sure.
LIAM: My acrobatics or the cat's?
MATT: The cat's acrobatics.
LIAM: Oh great, hold on, I've got that pulled up
right here, hold on.
MARISHA: Are you going to land on your feet for
the cat?
LIAM: 16.
MATT: Frumpkin lands.
LAURA: We've tied our ropes together and we're
going to go down.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Double knot.
MATT: Double knot? All right.
MARISHA: I can go down first and make sure it's
secure on the other end.
SAM: Sailors' knot.
MATT: All right. You make your way down the rope.
Eventually you get to the bottom. It does dangle
and the edge of the rope does, basically, end
about a foot or two above where the ground is. So
you just manage to catch the bottom. So put how
many ropes together? Two 50 feet ropes? Oh, so no.
It's actually coiled at the bottom. Total, it's
about a 60-foot way down. You manage to make you
way down without an issue.
MARISHA: Yeah, I help anyone else down.
MATT: Okay. So with the rope and everything,
aiding you down here, it's easy enough for you all
to make your way into this area.
SAM: Oh boy, they have all of us all crammed up in
this little space.
LAURA: What else are we going to do?
TALIESIN: I'm going to point out, we can't
retreat.
LAURA: Why?
MATT: Kiri's coming down with you?
SAM: No, wait. We're not bringing Kiri down, are
we? Are you guys bringing Kiri down?
LIAM: I don't know.
SAM: Oh my god.
LAURA: We can't leave Kiri up there. Who knows
what's up there?
MATT: Are you guys having this conversation?
TALIESIN: No.
LAURA: We had it upstairs. Kiri!
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: (shushing) Sit in this corner.
MATT: (like Cali) "I killed people."
LAURA: (shushing) No. Sit in the corner, Kiri,
right here.
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: Don't move unless something chases you.
MATT: (like Jester) "Don't move unless something
chases you."
LAURA: Right.
MATT: (like Jester) "Right."
ASHLEY: What if she dies?
MATT: Holds the dagger in front of her.
TALIESIN: She's upstairs.
LAURA: She's down here with us.
ASHLEY: She's down here with us, in the corner?
LAURA: Right.
MATT: Yeah, so Kiri is going to go ahead and duck
into this corner, here.
ASHLEY: She's better not die.
LIAM: Oh, wait. Kiri is down here with us in the
corner?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: All right, what are you guys doing?
LAURA: Let's kill the fish people.
MARISHA: Okay, we're going to go. We're doing
this.
MARK: Do you want me to start this explosively?
LAURA: Yeah!
MARISHA: I mean.
MARK: I mean, I'm asking.
TRAVIS: It is kind of enclosed.
LIAM: Well, I think that's a great idea, but we
should also send Bren with you, and if you guys
could go simultaneous, like. Maybe if Bren hit one
of them, and then you follow right away.
MARK: Ooh! It might manage the goods that Bren
told us about that are around the corner. Like all
the crates and stuff. I mean, my bowls should be
okay, but are you here for something?
LIAM: Sometimes I'm able to focus just shy of what
I'm trying to target.
MARK: Oh, it's a pretty tight space around there,
I'm not sure! I could try.
MARISHA: If your bowls are magical, though, they
should survive, right?
MARK: Yeah, I know. They should be fine, but I
mean for you guys, what do you want?
LAURA: What if we all jump out at the same time
and scream and attack at the same time.
TRAVIS: I like that idea.
MARISHA: Yeah, let's ambush.
LAURA: Like three, two, one.
MARISHA: (quiet yell) Yeah.
LIAM: I still think that these two would be good
to lead that charge.
MARISHA: Give the explosive things--
LAURA: We shouldn't do explosive because--
MATT: Nott, you're watching.
SAM: Uh-oh. Something's happening.
MATT: You hear the splashing of water and out from
the side, another one emerges from this side pool.
It (speaking in Aquan). The other one (speaking in
Aquan). It turns around and splashes back into
this little pool and vanishes below the surface.
SAM: Is there anyway to freeze the water or get
rid of the water?
MARISHA: Yeah, dry up the water!
LIAM: Are they still talking?
MATT: Briefly chatting, but in the process of
eating, more than anything.
MARK: I think I could freeze about five-foot,
that's the amount I can do.
SAM: There's a pool in the back there. That's
where they entered and exited from.
MATT: It's about ten square feet.
MARK: I can freeze half of it. It's oddly specific
how much I can freeze.
LIAM: Does anyone want to try to talk to these
things, or are we just (cutting)?
MARK: They look like murderous fish men.
TRAVIS: We're good to fuck them up, I think.
MARK: We could try!
TRAVIS: No, I don't think that's a good idea.
LIAM: I like how that sounds. (like Cali)
Murderous fish men.
MARK: Murderous fish men!
LIAM: I love it.
MARK: Have any of you seen Thor: Ragnarok?
MARISHA: Yeah! I was going to say, you sound like
them, I love it!
TRAVIS: I could blind them.
SAM: Don't you speak fish?
TRAVIS: What?
SAM: You're half fish!
MARK: You're half fish?
TRAVIS: I'm not half fish, I'm half-orc!
SAM: He was born underwater!
TRAVIS: That is actually not true at all. Nott,
not at all.
SAM: What is the other half?
ASHLEY: You're half-orc, but what's the other
half?
TRAVIS: Half-human, I'd assume.
MARISHA and ASHLEY: You assume.
LIAM: We're glossing over it, but we've seen you
vomit sea water twice.
TRAVIS: Once.
LAURA: Is this really the moment to talk about
this?
MARK: Jester's really smart!
ASHLEY: Right now's the moment.
TRAVIS: Right now?
SAM: Quick, tell us your backstory!
MARISHA: You know how under pressure, you can
discover hidden talent? Maybe if you do this,
you'll be like: Oh, I never knew this fishman side
of me!
MATT: Everyone make a stealth check.
LAURA: Oh, jeez. We're losing our ambush, y'all.
SAM: Someone create a distraction! We'll pop out
and kill it.
ASHLEY: I rolled a six.
MATT: What was the number you rolled?
ASHLEY: It was a four.
MATT: Okay, so that's six.
TALIESIN: 15. I've already activated a sword.
LAURA: Ten.
SAM: 15.
MARK: 14.
LIAM: Drei.
MARISHA: 18.
TRAVIS: 13.
SAM: Okay, average, average.
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: As they're all eating, and Nott, you're
paying attention, one goes, (inquisitive growl,
garbled speech)
SAM: Three, two, one, go!
(yelling)
SAM: I'm going to Mage Hand throw the ball bearing
first, just as a signal to go. On the three-two-one.
LAURA: And then we jump out.
MATT: All right. So you throw the ball bearings,
and then everyone rolls initiative. You lost the
surprise round, unfortunately. You were spending
too much time talking.
ASHLEY: We're trying to get backstory!
SAM: Half-carp, half-orc. Orcarp. Carporc?
Corpor.
MATT: 25 to 20, anybody?
MARISHA: I'm-- wait, 25 to 20? No.
LAURA: Nobody? Nobody, huh?
MATT: 20 to 15.
TRAVIS: 18.
MARISHA: 19.
TALIESIN: 16.
MATT: Okay, so we have Beau, Fjord-- what did you
get? 18. And then Molly at 16. 15 to ten?
LIAM: Zehn.
SAM: Ten.
ASHLEY: 13.
SAM: Wow, Ashley!
LIAM: Yasha, and then Nott and Caleb are equal.
MATT: And then, what was it, Caleb and Nott?
LIAM: Caleb and Nott got ten, ten.
MATT: All right. Ten to five?
LAURA: Six.
MARK: Six. Six twins.
MATT: Jester and Cali.
ASHLEY: Wait, does Kiri get a turn?
MATT: No, Kiri's staying in the back. All right,
that's everybody. Top of the round, as all three
of them have spun around, apparently aware that
something is lurking in this area of it.
SAM: It still doesn't see us, right?
LIAM: For six seconds.
MATT: No, but it's not an ambush round. So. Top of
the round is Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Can I hold my turn until Fjord goes?
MATT: You can't hold your turn. You can hold an
action.
TRAVIS: Do what you're going to do.
MATT: All the bad stealth checks were--
LIAM: Big three.
ASHLEY: Big six.
LAURA: I got ten.
MATT: Ten, right. Okay, got it.
ASHLEY: We die first.
LIAM: Scheisse.
MARISHA: Can I move into place and then hold my
action until Fjord goes?
MATT: Depending on what your action trigger is,
yeah.
MARISHA: I want to attack after he attacks, after
he casts a spell. Can I move in this corner
as far as I can--
MATT: Over here, next to Nott?
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm going to stealth-- yeah.
MATT: Yeah, you can do that.
MARISHA: Stealthing as fuck.
MATT: Okay. And you're holding your action in case
Fjord attacks something.
MARISHA: I'm going to hold my shurikens.
MATT: Okay. So as you're pulling back with that,
Fjord?
TRAVIS: I'm going to run around the corner. Give
me that right over here. Yeah, so I can see all
three of them, at least.
MATT: All right. Well, you're going to be out in
the open. Just so you're aware. All right. So you
move over here. You can now see all three right
there.
TRAVIS: 'Sup, fish-fucks!
(laughter)
MATT: Yeah, that's as far as you can move there.
They all turn, (growls). You see some of them
holding what looks to be these large
harpoon-trident things that are hooked on the end
and they have some sort of thick cabling of some
kind attached to the end of it.
TRAVIS: Aren't y'all pretty? I look. In the space
in between them, I see this ripple start to form,
and I reach out with my hand, and I'll grasp at
the space and tear a rip in reality, and I'll cast
Hunger of Hadar, ripping this 20-foot dome on the
ground.
MATT: 20-foot radius? Where do you want to place
it?
TRAVIS: I'll put it right here, so it's--
Actually? No, I'll stick it right here. Yeah,
because it halves it, makes it difficult terrain,
so let's put it right there. Ish.
MATT: You got it. So you watch suddenly as the
back end of that chamber-- well, for those who can
see, which Caleb currently-- it's mostly dark
except for that faint, faint glow around the
corner that you don't see the source. There's no
light in here. That light goes out. You are blind
at the moment, because what little bit of light
there is has been consumed by this sphere of
darkness that Fjord has summoned on the opposite
side of the chamber. You watch as reality tears
open in that space, and you see these strange,
black-purple otherworldly tentacles whip out from
the outside of it, and you hear this horrible
slithering sound within the center of that
chamber, with this faint underlying of whispers
and chanting.
LAURA: Oh, shit.
MATT: Does that do immediate damage, or only on
their turn?
TRAVIS: Only if they start in it, or if they end
their turn in it. Two different types of damage.
MATT: Cool, all right. So that ends your turn,
there. Molly, you're up.
MARISHA: No, it's me. I get to go first. Can I pop
around the corner?
MATT: Let me see here, real fast, about the Hunger
of Hadar spell.
MARISHA: I have my goggles on, by the by.
MATT: All right. So you cannot see anything. You
have your goggles on--
MARISHA: --but I still can't see?
TRAVIS: Well, actually, it says the void is filled
with a cacophony of soft whispers. No light,
magical, or otherwise, can illuminate the area of
the 20-foot sphere--
MATT: Correct. But you have Darkvision.
TRAVIS: It's just within the sphere they're
blind.
MATT: Correct. So I'll say you can see where they
are, but it's a little obscured, so.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to pop out. Can I pop
out? Am I able to do that?
MATT: You are. Well no, I'm sorry, you cannot
move. You did your move, so you have to have an
action, so you can only attack that one that you
can see there.
MARISHA: Okay, I will throw two.
MATT: Okay. They're at disadvantage, because it's
beyond your 20-foot initial range.
MARISHA: First one? Man. I'll take that 12,
though, for an 18 to hit?
MATT: That does hit, yeah.
MARISHA: And that's-- sorry. Seven damage on that
one. And then second one... ooh, those are double
fours, which I don't believe hit.
MATT: Nope. Disappears into the darkness.
MARISHA: And then I'm going to take a ki point and
cast-- I almost called it Uncanny Dodge.
MATT: You had to do that on your turn. You've only
got an action you were holding. Sorry.
MARISHA: Okay.
LIAM: How high's the ceiling here?
MATT: It's about ten, 11 feet. It's not very
high.
MARISHA: I would have had to have said it earlier,
which I didn't know.
MATT: All right, that ends Fjord and Beau's turn.
Molly?
TALIESIN: Where am I? Let's see. I'm over there?
I'm going to run as far as I can go towards Fjord,
and then I'm going to spend the rest of my action
running across and get into that little alcove.
MATT: This one over here?
TALIESIN: No, the other side of it, I'm so sorry.
LAURA: No, like behind that little--
MATT: Oh, I see. There we go.
TALIESIN: So positioning and ready for things to
come.
MATT: You still have a bonus, if you want to.
TALIESIN: I've got nothing for my bonus.
MATT: All right. Did you activate one of your
scimitars?
TALIESIN: One is activated, the other is not.
MATT: Got it, cool. That ends your turn? It is now
their turn. So, top of the round, they're both in
the space, so they take how much damage?
TRAVIS: They take 2d6--
MATT: 2d6 cold damage.
TRAVIS: Each of them. Do I roll that?
MATT: You do. So roll all at once.
TRAVIS: Five, four. Nine points of damage each.
Cold. (impacts) Tentacle beating!
MATT: (laughs) You hear this strange slamming and
slithering sound and hissing noises on the inside.
All righty, so this one's going to go ahead and
move just to the edge there.
LAURA: He's dead, he's dead! Too late.
LIAM: That's how it works.
MATT: This guy gets to about there, actually,
before he can move into the water. Right now,
because they don't have a huge movement on land.
TRAVIS: And they're in difficult terrain, so it's
halved.
MATT: Exactly. So those guys are clustered there.
That guy does manage to move--
LAURA: Sweet, then they end their turn!
TRAVIS: Yeah, you just send whatever you've got in
the sphere. Trying to keep them in one spot.
MATT: He's going to continue slithering the rest
of the way. (counting)
I'll say it gets him to about there.
TRAVIS: At the end of their turns, they must
succeed on a dexterity saving throw--
MATT: Well, it's not the end of their turn yet.
TRAVIS: Oh, sorry. My fault.
MATT: The two, while still blinded, saw you
emerge. The one over on this end is going to go
ahead and attempt to throw one of its harpoons in
your direction. It's blinded, so it has
disadvantage on the attack.
MARISHA: Do it!
MATT: With disadvantage, that's a 16. What's your
armor class?
TRAVIS: 17.
MATT: Aw, slick! It shoots through and you deflect
it with the shield and watch it spark off. The one
behind it is going to throw as well. Natural one,
yeah. It chucks the harpoon. Both of them land on
the ground, and you hear them scrape as they're
pulled back to where they are. The one that is
right there in front of you is going to throw
another harpoon. It's going to throw a harpoon at
you. Still at disadvantage. That is a 20 to hit?
TRAVIS: That hits.
MATT: You suffer, as it jams and pierces into your
abdomen, right past the armor, sticking a couple
inches into your chest. You take 11 points of
piercing damage and I need you to make a strength check.
MARISHA: Don't get dragged!
TRAVIS: I have to make a constitution saving throw
to keep the spell. Okay, strength save. Nine.
MATT: Natural 20. You get dragged right up into
its space right there. Make a constitution saving
throw to see if you can maintain concentration on
your spell.
TRAVIS: What do I have to make? I forget.
MATT: Make a constitution saving throw.
MARISHA: You have to roll under the spell damage.
TRAVIS: 23.
MATT: So you succeed that one. Now it's pulled you
in. It's going to go ahead and make a bite attack
against you, as it pulls you in. Its jaw opens up
to strike you. That is an 18 to hit.
TRAVIS: That hits.
MATT: Because you have 17 armor. You take seven
points of piercing damage as it digs its jaws
right into the front of your chest and shoulder
area, biting down. Make another
constitution saving throw.
LAURA: Oh god!
TRAVIS: Natural 20.
MATT: You maintain concentration of the spell.
Now, all three of them have to make a dexterity
saving throw or receive the damage again. That is
a fail, a fail, and a fail! Two, ten, and a three!
TRAVIS: That is a six and a one, so seven points
of acid damage.
MATT: Nice! That ends their turn. That brings us
to Yasha.
ASHLEY: All right! How close can I get to this
guy?
MATT: 40. You can't quite get up into his space.
You're ten feet away.
ASHLEY: Shit.
MATT: You can use an action to dash if you want to
make the rest of the movement, but you won't have
an action on your turn.
ASHLEY: I won't have an action.
TALIESIN: Have anything good on a bonus?
ASHLEY: I can do the rage, but then it can go
away.
MATT: If you don't take damage by the end of your
next turn, then yeah.
ASHLEY: Which is possible.
MATT: Unless you move into the tentacle range.
MARISHA: Tentacle range?
LAURA: That's what his spell is.
MARISHA: Oh boy. Oh you?
TRAVIS: Yeah, it's a sphere of darkness with stars
with milky tentacles whipping around.
That's what it says.
ASHLEY: Can I hold my action?
MATT: You can. You're going to hold for what?
ASHLEY: If he tries to fight or attack Fjord
again, I could-- that's not going to work. Oh god.
LAURA: Just within range? Until he's in range?
ASHLEY: Yeah. Until he gets in range.
MATT: Okay. Holding your attack just in case it
comes in range. That ends your turn, Yasha. Nott
and Caleb, you're up with Jester and Cali on
deck.
LIAM: You want me to go? Yeah, sure. I'm going to
move forward until I can see-- no, Frumpkin's
going to go first. I'm going to pull a Shakäste
and use Frumpkin to help me see in here.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: I have to ask you, as a DM, can my cat see
in the dark?
MATT: Does your cat have darkvision?
LIAM: I don't know, it doesn't say.
LAURA: No, remember? You looked at this before.
LIAM: I don't remember, but I know that my cats
could see in the dark growing up.
LAURA: But in the book it doesn't have darkvision.
We did this last--
MATT: No, it does not.
LIAM: I'm going to stumble forward in the dark.
I'm going to say: Beau!
MARISHA: Huh?
LIAM: I cast Enlarge on Beauregard so that she's
ten and a half feet tall.
MARK: Has it been an hour by the way? My Light
spell still would be going so Caleb might be able
to see the first area.
MATT: The first area, but nothing beyond that
space.
LIAM: If that's the case, then I wouldn't go that
far forward. I would stay as far away from danger
as I can that as soon as I see Beauregard, cast
Enlarge.
MATT: You got it. Beau has swollen to an enlarged
state.
MARISHA: I'm so swole!
LIAM: There's Amazon women singing right now.
MATT: Beau takes up this entire space now.
LAURA: Damn, Beau's big.
MATT: At a ten-foot ceiling Beau, you suddenly
crouch. You're now hunched forward with the top of
it grinding against the top of your head and
shoulders.
LIAM: You got to pull a Vega position.
SAM: I'll fire at the one near good old Fjord. Mr.
Fjord. Aw fuck. 12.
TALIESIN: Does that get advantage?
SAM: Why would I have advantage?
TALIESIN: Aren't they in combo-- wouldn't that be
sneak attack?
MATT: If he hits, it's sneak attack. He doesn't
get advantage, so it misses, unfortunately.
SAM: I'll shoot again. Slightly better. 14?
MATT: 14 does hit.
SAM: Does this one get sneak attack?
MATT: It does, yes.
SAM: Terrible. Nine. 13 plus I'll take Fury of the
Small, so that's 18.
MATT: 18 points of damage. All righty. That ends
your turn?
SAM: Then, can I get all the way to Mollymauk on
my movement?
MATT: Yeah, you can. Right over there.
TALIESIN: Hi!
SAM: Hi! Want some booze?
TALIESIN: After!
MATT: Jester and Cali.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to run over behind
Frumpkin, in that little alcove. Actually, that's
a lie. I'm going to go next to Caleb.
MATT: There?
LAURA: Yeah, back a little bit.
MATT: There you go.
LAURA: Even more. Then I am going to cast Invoke
Duplicity. I'm going to Invoke Duplicity! She's
going to run forward and stand next to Fjord!
MATT: There you go. All righty. That's your turn,
Jester?
LAURA: Yeah, because that's my action.
MARK: How far can Cali get into, full movement,
close to--
MATT: About 30, about there.
MARK: About there. So I'll move there. You watch
as the draconic eye-- she brushes the hair out of
the way. She focuses on the one fighting Fjord,
and a sickly green beam will shoot out of the eye,
and I'm going to cast Ray of Sickness.
MATT: All righty.
MARK: This is an attack roll, a spell attack roll.
15?
SAM: (singing) Sicker than a ray of light!
MATT: 15 hits.
MARISHA: Madonna, Ray of Light? Circa 2002? Jesus!
MATT: Six?
MARK: That's a failure, so it takes nine poison
damage and it's poisoned until the end of my turn.
MATT: Great. It's poisoned until the end of your
next turn. As the bolt hits it, the veins all of a
sudden go dark on its torso where it impacts.
MARK: Then as she starts as the combat's going,
she's going to be like: Come on, let's kill these
things. You start seeing a little bit of-- becomes
a bit more draconic.
MATT: Ending Cali's turn. Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Oh wait, after Jester?
MATT: Jester went. She Invoked Duplicity.
MARISHA: Oh, I'm sorry. So me.
MATT: Enlarged Beau is crouching down.
MARISHA: Can I get to the doucher?
MATT: You can.
MARISHA: (deep voice) Sorry, my voice is even
deeper now! Sorry.
MATT: This giant foot right next to you, Nott, as
Beau's large form almost stomps on you.
MARISHA: 'Sup, Nott Bran? First attack. Okay. 16?
MATT: 16, that hits.
MARISHA: Second attack. Not good. 11?
MATT: That misses.
MARISHA: Okay. First attack. All right, ten
damage.
MATT: Ten damage with your staff. As you rush up,
crouching low, you take the staff and jam it down
into it. It looks back at you. It sees you looming
by. As it pulls up its harpoon to try and defend,
you jam the staff into its chest, shove it to the
ground, under the water, and hear a crunch as you
collapse its ribcage with the impact.
MARISHA: Oh, is it dead?!
MATT: It's taken the brunt of your damage.
TRAVIS: What happens to the harpoon and the cord
sticking out of me?
MATT: The harpoon fell out of the wound. It's
loose on the ground. There's a pretty nice
puncture wound through your armor and your body
right there.
TRAVIS: I appreciate it (pained sounds).
MARISHA: You good? Okay. Good. Could I take the
staff, and I pick it up with the fish still on it,
and I'm like: It's fish kebabs!
SAM: That's not a thing.
MARISHA: It is today. That's what's on the menu.
SAM: This is Paul!
LIAM: 20 feet behind, you hear: This is all I
wanted!
MARISHA: Too many one-liners! Can I do something
creative and take my staff with my fish on it, and
fling it, and try and throw the fish cadaver at
the other fish dudes?
SAM: You're casting? With bait?
MATT: You sure can. So you take it, and you fling
it into the darkness, and it (flopping).
MARISHA: Oh come on, man. I can't try to aim to
attack--
MATT: You've already used your action to do your
attack.
MARISHA: But I have a bonus action!
MATT: Bonus action's an unarmed strike, so this is
a flavor, as you throw it into the darkness that
they can't see. You hear its body--
MARISHA: You said I could use flavor for unarmed
shit.
MATT: You were, but there was nothing to hit
that's unarmed in your face. You do fling it in
there, and you hear this horrible slurping sound
as whatever--
MARISHA: He told me to be flavorful!
MATT: And you were. And whatever tear in reality
that was opened by Fjord's patron devours the
corpse. It's plucked out of the air and sucked
through whatever small rip in reality had opened.
LAURA: Still pretty cool, Beau, still pretty
cool.
MARISHA: So can I take my actual bonus action to
do Patient Defense?
MATT: Sure. All right, that ends your turn. Fjord,
you're up.
TRAVIS: I'm going to hug this wall if I can, back
up a little bit, and I'm going to hold Eldritch
Blast if I see them emerge from the darkness.
MATT: Okay, that ends your turn.
MARISHA: Did I have any more movement, by the by?
MATT: You did have a little bit more, yeah.
MARISHA: Could I have scooched up a bit?
MATT: You could have, yeah.
MARISHA: Just a scooch.
TRAVIS: I'm scooching!
MARISHA: Excuse me!
MATT: You can scoot all the way up to here, if you
want.
MARISHA: I've got very long legs right now.
MATT: You're squat-moving your way through the
cavern.
MARK: A core stance is very good for your abs.
MATT: Molly, what do you got?
TALIESIN: There ain't nothing for me to hit, so
I'm going to slightly peek out around the corner,
so that I can keep an eye on things, and I'm going
to hold my attack for anything that comes within range.
MATT: You got it. It's now their turn. Top of the
turn, they take 2d6 damage, so go ahead and roll that.
TRAVIS: Two, three. Five points of cold damage.
MATT: Got it. You hear (snarling) and (slurping)
sound on the inside of this darkened sphere. This
guy manages to get into the water and poke his way
through, but just barely get his vision out. This
guy's going to come out as well and encounter Beau
on that element. They're both still inside.
LAURA: They're still inside the tentacles?
TALIESIN: Yeah, the circle should be a little
further forward, so yeah they're just--
MATT: They're still inside. And another one
arrives here, and can only move there.
ASHLEY: We don't know that.
TALIESIN: Since he's going to end his turn there.
MATT: He will, yes. This one here is technically
right in range of Fjord, and is going to unleash
two strikes on you. Its claws and its melee bite.
Actually, I could melee with a harpoon, so it's
going to attempt to harpoon you and bite you.
Natural 20 on the harpoon, and then for the bite
attack, that's going to be a 23.
TRAVIS: Yeah, they both.
MATT: The harpoon is going to be 24 points of
piercing damage as it jams right into your chest,
pushing you against the wall. Go ahead and make a
concentration check, if you don't mind. You have
to beat 12.
TRAVIS: 21.
MATT: It's going to attempt to bite you in the
face-- The bite, it actually hit. That's going to
be a d8. That's eight points of piercing damage.
LAURA: What are you at, Fjord?
TRAVIS: I don't know, I can't add this fast, my
app's breaking.
MATT: Where did my dice go? There it is. No, the
Snitch fell away, I need to keep it.
LAURA: It touched the ground, that means it's
cursed now.
MARISHA: It tried to run.
MATT: It did.
MARISHA: It did want to come home.
MARK: Some treasures abandon their masters.
(laughter)
MATT: All righty, so make a second concentration
check.
TRAVIS: 13.
MATT: 13's fine, you maintain concentration. The
other one that's right next to Beau is going to
attempt to also throw its harpoon at you, since it
saw that you were the source of this. They're
trying to break the spell.
TALIESIN: I'm going to go ahead and cast some
bullshit on that.
MATT: You were holding an attack. You'll have to
say that—
TALIESIN: This is a reaction. I'm doing a Blood
Maledict. The next two attacks are disadvantage.
MATT: You're amplifying it?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, go for it. So roll the damage, that's
disadvantage on that.
TALIESIN: One point of damage.
MATT: That's a 17 to hit. What's your armor
class?
TRAVIS: 17.
MATT: 17. It still hits the first strike. The
harpoon (crashing) into you. That's going to be 12
points of piercing damage.
TRAVIS: I go unconscious. I use my Relentless
Endurance to pop back up to one.
MARISHA: Upon seeing Fjord get super daze-y, can I
use my Sentinel feat to crack this guy who just
tried to attack?
MATT: You can. While this is happening, roll a
concentration check.
TRAVIS: 19 plus all that.
MATT: And make a strength check for me, please.
TRAVIS: I'm super strong. Where the fuck is it?
MATT: 19 on its side.
TRAVIS: 14.
MATT: You get dragged 20 feet through the water
into range with it. Beau, you make your Sentinel
Strike on it?
MARISHA: Oh!
MATT: Natural 20, nice. Go ahead and--
MARISHA: That was awesome. Doubling the dice,
that's eight plus four, which is 12, plus another
dice, that's two.
MATT: The dice of the enlarged is also doubled,
too.
MARISHA: That's right. That's two plus another
four. Sorry, that's two doubled which is four, so
that's 16 damage.
MATT: 16 points of damage. Crack!
MARISHA: As he grabs the chain, big Beau steps on
the chain and cracks him right in the face.
MATT: As it gets cracked, you watch as one of the
teeth goes flying from the impact of your giant
elbow hammer into its jaw. Using that momentum, it
looks back, its eyes clenched down on Fjord,
now almost prostrate before it, holding onto the harpoon, and
goes for the face. This is with disadvantage,
though. That'll save you. It was a 17 and a two.
It goes to bite you, and you manage to pull up
your sword in the way and block it. Its jaws open
and this terrible fishing breath smell cascades
over your face.
TRAVIS: It's like a dock on a Tuesday morning.
MARISHA: What happens on Monday nights?
MATT: The one on the other end is blind, it hears
all this noise happening, it's going to make a
wide shot with its harpoon in the direction of
where it's hearing all this conflict.
LAURA: Hit one of its brothers!
MATT: Disadvantage. 16 and 18, that still hits.
Sorry, Fjord. You take--
TRAVIS: At disadvantage? 16 doesn't hit.
MATT: No, those are the dice rolls that I was
making. It was a 16 and a 19. So that's nine
points of piercing damage.
TRAVIS: He's throwing in the dark in the direction
where two guys, and he's threading them and
hitting me?
MATT: Yeah. You guys have done it before.
TRAVIS: Fair enough. Unconscious I go.
MARISHA: Fuck!
MATT: And with that, Fjord goes down, and the
spell fades. It closes off. They now have visual.
MARISHA: But that's all of their turns, right?
MATT: This guy's going to move.
MARISHA: Except for that motherfucker.
TALIESIN: Wait, didn't he burn his whole turn just
getting to where he was?
MATT: No, that was his movement. That's right, so
he wouldn't move. He went top of the round. Thank
you for the reminder of that. But he used his
action to throw that. So that's all he has. That
ends their go. Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to move to the guy who's
been attacking my boy, Fjord.
MATT: This one here? All right. In the water or on
the side?
ASHLEY: On the side.
MATT: You got it.
ASHLEY: I would like to rage.
MATT: Going the full Yasha, angry.
ASHLEY: Divine Fury, all the bits.
MATT: Nott and Caleb, you're up next.
ASHLEY: Reckless. Okay, that hits. 19.
MATT: 19 hits.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: So the first strike with the Divine, 3d6
plus seven.
ASHLEY: Ooh. 20.
MATT: 20 points of damage on the first strike as
you carve across its torso, it hisses back, still
standing, though.
ASHLEY: Another--
MATT: That's 2d6 plus five.
ASHLEY: All right, ten. 2d6 plus five?
TALIESIN: What did you roll?
ASHLEY: Wait, six plus what?
MATT: Five.
ASHLEY: 11.
MATT: 11 points of damage? As the first blade
strike carves down its body, it pulls back
hissing, Fjord's unconscious, sinking underwater
with the harpoon still sticking out of his chest,
as it's leaning back at an angle as he vanishes
into the dark liquid. As it pulls back, it yanks
the harpoon from his body, and you see his body
slightly lurch up out of the water before sinking
again. It pulls it back to strike at you with it,
and when you pull the blade back, you thrust it
right into its chest, and the light goes out of
its eyes.
TALIESIN: Are you close enough to the bonus
action-- Can someone grab Fjord or is that not
happening?
ASHLEY: Can I as a bonus action--
LIAM: That's an action.
TRAVIS: Don't worry if I sink.
LAURA: I'll be able to fix him in a second.
TRAVIS: I have that armor.
MATT: That's true, you have the armor on. He
starts to sink, and the body buoys itself back to
the top.
MARISHA: Is it like a life vest?
TRAVIS: It's a life preserver, guys.
MATT: It's the Mariner's armor that he had the
enchantment put over.
LAURA: That's great.
TRAVIS: Throw me a Bud Light.
MATT: All righty, that ends Yasha's turn. Nott and
Caleb, you guys are up.
LIAM: Caleb is going to walk behind Cali so he's
got a good view of merman over Fjord. I'm going to
use the Glove of Blasting. First one is a natural
one, so that does not hit. The second one is a
natural 20.
MATT: Against which one?
LIAM: Against the one right over Fjord. So that
is, Scheisse.
SAM: Hey, Marisha.
MARISHA: Yeah?
SAM: Are you in melee with that thing?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Ah, okay.
LIAM: 12 total, since it was a crit. Is it still
up?
MATT: It is still up. As it bursts into it, the
flames burn across its system, but its body is
damp and slick anyway, so you see the dark black
scorch marks, but nothing more than that.
LIAM: And the third ray is not good, just a ten.
MATT: Ten misses, unfortunately. Hits the ground
behind it, or hits the wall, burns across, and
vanishes across the rock. That finishes your go.
Nott, you're up.
SAM: I will lean out, and is someone engaged with
this one, where I would get sneak attack?
MATT: Beau is.
SAM: I will attack with a crossbow bolt. 24.
MATT: That hits.
SAM: Okay. Ooh, that's all terrible.
LAURA: Well, not all terrible.
SAM: 15.
MATT: All righty. As you fire this one, it manages
to pierce right under its throat, and it turns
back towards you and it grabs the harpoon off the
ground. As it pulls it back, the blood's gouting
out of a major vein or artery in its throat. It
tries to get the strength, and as it does, it
pulls back and gets woozy, throws it, and it lands
maybe two feet from where it grabs it, and with a
horrible gurgle falls to the ground. It begins to
slip and sink into the water.
SAM: Shit. Can I use my bonus action to fire the
other one? Why not?
MATT: Disadvantage on this one, though.
SAM: 15.
MATT: 15 hits.
SAM: That's six points of damage.
MATT: Nice! That ends Nott's turn. Are you going
to move?
SAM: No, I will stay there and huddle closer to
Mollymauk. Did you step out?
TALIESIN: I did step out.
SAM: No, I'm huddling away from Mollymauk.
MATT: All right, Cali and Jester.
LAURA: I'm going to send Duplicity me towards
Fjord, and she's in her illusion going to hug him
and cast Cure Wounds. I will call from a distance
going, "Don't worry, Fjord, you'll be okay!" I'll
cast it at level two.
SAM: Aw, because Oskar?
LAURA: So 11 points.
MATT: You are conscious. (gasping) You look up and
see the faintly illusory image of Jester holding you.
TRAVIS: Thanks, Jester.
MARISHA: And then big me over top of her.
TRAVIS: Oh god!
MARISHA: Hi, Fjord! Good to see you alive.
TRAVIS: What's wrong with Beau?!
LAURA: Then I'm going to use my bonus action to
cast Spiritual Weapon right over top of the other
fish man in the back there.
ASHLEY: (singing) Lollipop, lollipop.
MATT and ASHLEY: (singing) Oh lolly, lolly, lolly,
lollipop.
MATT: Pop! (singing) Roll that attack roll.
LAURA: 14 plus something, so I think that hits.
MATT: That hits. Its armor class is 13.
LAURA: So that is 1d8 plus four. Force damage, so
eight force damage.
MATT: All righty. That ends Jester's go. Cali.
MARK: Cali is going to run up past Yasha and you
see she's like (growls) and shoves Yasha out of
the way. I want to get as close as I possibly can.
Am I within 15 feet there?
MATT: You are.
MARK: Okay. She stops for a moment and you see
this green magic flow around. I'm going to cast
Dragon's Breath at 3rd-level on myself. Then she
inhales. Acid breath, 15-foot cone over the creature.
MATT: Yeah, 15-foot cone.
MARISHA: I don't know what you just did, but I am
so into it.
MATT: As the acid sprays out towards it, it covers
the area.
MARK: Dex saving throw.
MATT: Dex saving throw for the merrow as it tries
to avoid it. That is a natural three plus zero.
That's a failure.
MARK: So that's 4d6 damage. Oh, I was going to
reroll some of this, but I'm not now. So that's
going to be 19 acid damage.
MATT: Nice! As you finish spraying it down and all
the flesh on the outside of its body is beginning
to melt away and burn and bubble, it (growls).
It's pretty scarred from that immediate spray
across the front part of its torso.
MARK: (deep voice) Come on! Come and get me!
MATT: You see the eye gleaming still with the
Light spell. All right, that finishes your turn.
Beau, top of the round, you.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to stride forward (large
footsteps).
LIAM: Careful of your head.
TRAVIS: (thuds) Ugh!
MARISHA: Ah, fuck! This is what Travis deals with
all the time. Ow! Through Cali's acid mist, I'm
going to split the air and cut down and do a big
slap right on its face.
MATT: Okay. All right. As you go for the big
sweep, your staff goes (scraping) (thud).
MARISHA: I get a little bit of--
MATT: Bits of rock and shale is being ground and
falling all around you.
MARISHA: It probably gets stuck a little bit, but
then it gives me a nice little snap.
MATT: Exactly, a little snap at the end. Roll for
the attack.
MARISHA: Okay, I'll take that. That's enough. 19.
MATT: That hits. Roll damage.
MARISHA: 20. 19. I don't know. It's enough.
LIAM: 19. Add that d4, motherfucker!
MARISHA: Okay, that's nine plus--
LIAM: Cocked.
MARISHA: Ooh, 13.
MATT: 13 points of damage. That's the first
strike.
MARISHA: The second one, knowing I'm going to get
stuck on the ceiling, I'm going to paddle back and
come up and crack with the other end.
MATT: Okay. As you spin it this way, it wedges
itself from the floor to the ceiling and you have
to like-- boom!
MARISHA: Damn it!
TRAVIS: Mike Myers.
MARISHA: Okay. 15?
MATT: 15 hits.
MARISHA: Plus seven plus-- ten total.
MATT: Ten points of damage. Whack! You crack into
it and it hits into its torso. It looks like it's
bleeding out of its mouth onto its stomach. It
looks really painfully hurt and its eyes are
dashing around each way. It looks like it's
starting to turn its head towards the area where
it emerged.
MARISHA: I'm going to do flurry of blows.
MATT: Okay, using a ki point.
MARISHA: Flurry of Beaus.
ASHLEY: Flurry of blows.
TRAVIS: Flurry of Beaus.
MARISHA: That's not great. 12.
MATT: 12 misses.
MARISHA: Second one is even fucking worse. It's a
two.
MATT: This time, as you try to punch, it manages
to dodge the first one, and the second time you go
to swing, one of the pieces of stone that had
dislodged slightly from when you had impacted it
falls and catches your fist in the middle of the
air. It shatters and causes this cloud of dust to
cross the creature but your hand fucking hurts!
LIAM: Haha, good show!
LAURA: Do you get one more hit?
MATT: That's it. End of Beau's turn. Fjord, you're
up.
TRAVIS: I'll use half my speed to stand upright.
MATT: Back to there, yeah.
TRAVIS: And I'll unleash two Eldritch Blasts at
that--
MATT: Go for it.
TRAVIS: That's a 26.
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: And that's cocked. Reach for the sky! And
an 18.
MATT: Yeah, roll damage.
TRAVIS: Six points of damage on the first one, and
14 points of damage on the second one.
MATT: How do you want to do this? It's turning
around and slithering away. It's about to dive
back into the water and probably disappear into a
subterranean tunnel that's filled.
TRAVIS: I stand up. I get to my feet. I touch the
wound area and I fire it across the way.
MATT: As you release your hand, both bolts arc
outward and slam into it from the back. From the
front perspective, it would look like Guyver, how
he tears the chest and the beams come out, but
instead it's its internal organs being shoved out
into the wall and there's two open holes,
Tombstone-style, before it hits the water and
slithers and sinks down into the small tunnel.
LIAM: (twangy singing) I got friends in eldritch
places.
LAURA: Wait, did you say it fell into the hole?
MATT: The impact hit it and began (sucking).
LAURA: Don't let it go into the hole!
MARK: We're out of initiative? Or are we--
MATT: We're out of initiative at this point.
MARK: Okay. I run up and with the clawed hand, she
dives into try and grab this thing out of the pool.
MATT: Sure. Make a dexterity saving throw to see
if you can react quick enough.
MARISHA: Can I assist for advantage?
MATT: Sure. It's less of a skill check. It's more
of a reactionary thing, so you wouldn't be able to
help with it.
MARK: Five.
MATT: Five? Okay, you're trying to reach it, but
it sunk too low.
MARISHA: I'm going to take my staff and try the
same thing.
MATT: You're hitting stone and then nothing, just
water below.
MARK: So when Beau's doing that, she turns around
and snaps at Beau. (rough voice) Get away from my
stuff! That's my kill! (normal voice) Sorry. I
didn't mean to yell. Sorry about that.
TALIESIN: Hey, we're all friends here.
MARK: Yeah, I know. We are.
TALIESIN: I cast Friends.
MARK: Yeah, of course we are. Sorry. Sometimes, I
just get really aggressive sometimes. I'm sorry.
TALIESIN: I know. That was intense. There's a lot
in that. Are you going to be all right?
MARK: Yeah, I just get really possessive about
certain things sometimes. Dragon blood and all.
Thank you for looking out for me.
TALIESIN: You're right. You're going to feel a
little weird in a few minutes. I apologize for
that. It's a thing. Let's clear this water and
let's take a breather. Let's sit down.
LAURA: Let's get this guy out of the tunnel in
case somebody comes through the tunnel. I don't
want anyone to see him right away.
MATT: Do you clear the water?
MARK: Yeah.
MATT: You do and you see that the tunnel curves
below and evens out. It sunk, hit the bottom
sediment, and dragged a little bit and came to
rest about maybe 15 feet below the surface. You
take a moment to dive under, grab it, and whether
through a chain of hands or whatever, because it's
pretty heavy. It's a large body, probably weighs
close to 800 pounds. So you guys have to all
together pull it up, and it takes a few moments to
do so. But Jester's pretty beefy.
LAURA: Me and Yasha basically got it out.
MATT: Between the two of you, you eventually get
it up back into the chamber.
LIAM: Roughly a minute later, I say: So you have
been somewhat charmed by a circus carnie. It's
going to be okay.
MATT: At which point the Friends spell ends, and
you can feel an influence that was previously
there over your personality.
LIAM: You seemed a little angry. He didn't mean
anything by it.
MARK: It's fine. It's fine. (deep breath)
LIAM: Just trying to keep everything copacetic and
in order.
MARK: I know. Thank you, Mr. Caleb. Thank you. No,
it's fine. I do understand why. It's fine. Thank you.
TALIESIN: Thought you needed a minute of clarity.
MARK: It's fine. People normally react really
worse when I go like that, so it's fine. You guys
didn't beat me up. You didn't try and kill me.
It's great. You guys are nice. Thank you.
LIAM: I mean, you have a lot of scales on your
face, but look at this one. Look at this one. Look
at this one.
TALIESIN: This one less so.
TRAVIS: We can deal with tempers.
LIAM: That one as well.
MARK: You all look fantastic. She's so cute as
well. You're really lucky.
LAURA and SAM: Kiri?
MARISHA: Is she all right?
TALIESIN: I am keeping an eye on these pools,
looking for any movement, by the way.
MATT: Kiri comes around the corner with the
dagger, sees you all standing there (chirping).
LAURA: You did it. You killed them.
MATT: Runs up to the body there and goes (dagger
slice). (like Cali) "I killed people!"
MARK: It's like Chappie. Chappie be good.
MATT: Stabs the body a few more times.
SAM: That's enough.
TRAVIS: Somebody help me check these crates.
MARK: Yeah, I'm going to start looking through as
well.
MATT: Okay, who's helming the investigation? Okay,
an individual has to helm it.
LIAM: I'm going to investigate.
MATT: All right. Caleb, you're being aided, so make it
with advantage.
LIAM: Yeah, I've got a high stat in it.
MARISHA: Hey, Cali.
LIAM: Cocked.
MARK: Yes, Ms. Beau?
MATT: That wasn't cocked, technically.
LIAM: Well it was on a magnet, so it was stuck to
a magnet.
MATT: Oh, did it? Okay. Metal dice.
LIAM: At advantage? We'll call the first one,
which was a three on a magnet, and the second roll
was a 17 plus my eight is a 25.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: It's a light die. It's not like a heavy one
that wouldn't be affected by the magnet.
MARISHA: Oh, it does magnet. It does actually
magnet.
LIAM: I can do this for the future.
TALIESIN: Have you not played with your Gil die
yet?
ASHLEY: Yeah, it totally sticks to it.
LIAM: So 25.
MATT: As you guys are rummaging through with Caleb
helming this section, you're going through a bunch
of empty crates, partially destroyed crates.
Pushing aside the mostly torn apart corpse of this
crocodile and ignoring that. You manage to find a
number of gold and silver pieces that have been
scattered and lost and fallen into the sand.
Digging through the natural gravel and sand floor
of this chamber, you find that a lot of it has
just been buried. They weren't interested in gold
pieces. They weren't interested in money. A lot of
that was left behind and scattered and has
been covered. You take a moment to pull through
and you manage to acquire 185 gold, 210 silver
pieces, and 65 copper pieces.
LAURA: 210 silver, you said?
MATT: Correct.
LIAM: Distribute that equally, however you would
do that.
LAURA: Okay. We'll do some math.
MATT: You find a bunch of jewelry, necklaces, and
rings that are thrown about and lost.
LAURA: Do you see any diamonds? Do you see 300
gold worth of diamonds?
LIAM: I put a bunch of jewelry into Jester's
hands.
MATT: Okay. All the jewelry together would come to
about, just for purposes of resale, 250 gold worth
of jewelry. There are no diamonds in there worth
300 gold, sorry. There are four sets of manacles.
ALL: Manacles?
MARISHA: People are going to suspect things of us.
Trading in manacles all the time. These didn't work!
TALIESIN: The official currency of it. Nice
manacles.
MATT: The manacles are empty, though they are
bloody.
LAURA: You said four sets of manacles?
MATT: Yes, four sets of bloody manacles.
TRAVIS: Do they have any rune-ish markings on them
or anything like that?
MATT: No, these do not. These are plain manacles.
TALIESIN: Are they humanoid sized?
MATT: Roughly, yeah. There are a number of broken
vials of some thick purple liquid, but two of them
are not broken. You rolled really high on your
investigation. So two vials of a thick purple
liquid, roughly about that big. It's a thick, oily
substance.
LIAM: I'd like to take these for a moment. Or
maybe ten moments.
MATT: Nott, you see one thing, helping Caleb out,
and you pull it out. It looks to be a well-crafted
marble bowl of gold inlay of a curious design. The
edges of the bowl shift into five multiple dragon
heads, equally separated and in each dragon, the
eyes are tiny gemstones. One set's rubies, one
set's emeralds, one set's sapphires, one set's
diamond.
SAM: I will try to conceal this from Cali.
MATT: All righty, make a sleight of hand check.
Cali, make a perception check.
SAM: I will use my luck point.
(gasping)
MARISHA: You have luck? Oh, it was the--
SAM: 28.
MARK: Eight.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: We treat guests so well!
MARK: That's what Nott would do. Absolutely what
Nott would do.
MARISHA: You're so mean.
MARK: She's just looking through the crates.
MATT: Looking through frantically, you don't see
anything there.
MARK: I'm sure it was here.
LAURA: Really, people don't like it when you do
these things, Sam.
SAM: I just have to confer with Caleb.
MARISHA: So, Cali. I started a conversation
earlier.
MARK: Hey, Ms. Beau.
MARISHA: Which might be why you got so distracted.
You seem to have such an affinity for cute things.
Is there a reason why you like cute things? I'm
not saying that not all of us like cute things. We
all love cute things, but you seem to really like
cute things.
MARK: I guess it's just one of those things
where-- and she's doing this as she's going
through the crates-- I was a kid and I used to ask
for dolls and pets and stuff when I was growing up
and the cult used to give them to me. Serissa used
to give them to me. I don't know. There's a lot of
bad stuff in the world and it's nice to appreciate
nice things sometimes. I like having and finding
cute stuff. Do you not like that?
MARISHA: I just might appreciate some other
things.
MARK: Your outfit's cute though.
MARISHA: Man, thank you.
MARK: That's all right. You're welcome. I was sure
it was here. I traced it. I followed them. I knew
that it was coming through this-- Maybe I missed
it. Maybe I've messed up.
TALIESIN: How deep is that pool?
MATT: It gets about five or six feet deep.
TALIESIN: I'm going to search the bottom of it.
MATT: Make an investigation check with
disadvantage.
TRAVIS: Are there any weapons that the merrow
dropped? The hook or the spears? Or were they
tridents or anything?
MATT: There's one of them that was a three-pronged
trident and two that were just long harpoons.
They're all hooked at the tips and they had this
thick rope cable on the edge that they were using
to pull them back in.
TRAVIS: I pick up one of the tridents. Does it
seem like an average--
MATT: Just a trident.
LIAM: I would propose-- I just rolled a 17 on
perception to see if Caleb noticed Nott even do that.
SAM: I'm going to come tell you anyways.
LIAM: Well, but you rolled a 28, so it would be
super hard for anyone at the table to have seen it.
MATT: Yeah, no one noticed. Nobody noticed.
ASHLEY: I'm still keeping watch. I'm watching the
hole.
LAURA: I wanted to look in the pools too.
TALIESIN: Can she give me advantage on that?
MATT: Sure. Usually you got to tell me before you
roll.
TALIESIN: I know. We didn't want to interrupt the
thing.
MATT: That's fine.
TALIESIN: It doesn't matter anyway, it's eight.
MATT: It's brackish and thick and you don't find
much of interest.
TALIESIN: Check that other one too in a moment.
MATT: You do find some bones.
MARK: I can clear the water as well.
MATT: Looking through, you find a number of
discarded humanoid skeletons. Four of them, to be
exact.
TALIESIN: The other one, then.
MARISHA: Maybe it's in the next room. There's still
another room.
SAM: There is?
LAURA: They were coming from somewhere. Who knows,
there could be 20 of them on the other side of this.
MARISHA: It's true. Could be a whole network of
caverns.
SAM: Should we fill in the hole?
TALIESIN: I think we're going to have to.
MARISHA: Until we find--
SAM: Ooh! We have thunder sticks!
MARISHA: We do have boom boom sticks.
LIAM: Is this the end of our task here?
MATT: Fjord.
LAURA: We're supposed to secure the safehouse.
MATT: As they're having this conversation, you
feel this strange crawling sensation in the back
of your head as you're looking past this pool down
into the darkness below. Even though it's clear,
you can see the ripples, and there's something
gently tugging you in that direction, and a
familiar voice creeps in, sourceless, within your
brain, that says, "Learn."
LAURA: So anyway.
SAM: We just killed Fjord's family.
LAURA: I feel like we should check and see if
there's 20 of them on the other side of this thing.
MARISHA: Or like you said, we just destroy the
entrance to where they can't come through.
TALIESIN: Don't we have a cat that can become a
fish?
MARISHA: It takes time, and equipment.
TRAVIS: Plus, some of us can swim. We could pop
down real quick and see what's down there.
LIAM: I'm taking those two purple vials and
walking around the corner over this way to set
them down and start doing my thing, and I'm going
to start pulling out my book.
SAM: I will join him.
TRAVIS: Anyone else feel like going for a swim?
LAURA and TALIESIN: Yes.
MARISHA: I could probably join you for a swim.
MARK: I need to check and make sure it's not here,
and if there is a room back there I need to make
sure it's not here.
TALIESIN: We don't know if there's going to be air
on the other side of that, though, so we need
people that can--
LAURA: Yeah, one person that can breathe really
well. Fjord, you are familiar with the sea. Can
you hold your breath for a long time?
TRAVIS: Yeah, pretty decent.
LAURA: All right. How about you go--
SAM: Like, forever?
TRAVIS: No.
TALIESIN: As long as you don't mind dying, sure.
SAM: Do you have gills?
ASHLEY: What if we tie a rope to you?
TRAVIS: Sure, we have an extra 50 feet, we didn't
really need the rest.
LAURA: Should we take a short rest again? Oh, it's
another hour.
TALIESIN: We're going to do this.
LAURA: Oh, you can only do it once a day.
MATT: What, the--
ALL: Short rest.
MATT: No, short rest you can do as many times as
you want, yeah.
MARK: It's the long rest you can only do once
every day.
LAURA: You're low on health still, aren't you?
TRAVIS: Yeah, but I mean, we're fine. Let's do
it.
MARISHA: If you want to just swim and back. You're
going to swim and come back?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm going to go down, and if I start
running short on air, I'll come back up.
TALIESIN: We'll have a rope tied.
LAURA: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on you, if
we're not going to take short rest, if we're not
going to take a short rest--
TRAVIS: No, you don't need to do that. There's no
need, Jester. We'll take a short rest afterwards.
Just a quick little recon.
ASHLEY: Here. Tie it around.
TRAVIS: I drop the rope and jump in.
SAM: As they're doing this, I'm going to come up
to Caleb and tap him on the shoulder and say:
Caleb, look what I found! I think this is the bowl
that Cali was talking about.
LIAM: I instantly cast Identify-- it takes one
minute-- on the two vials and the bowl.
MATT: Make a perception check.
LIAM: I'm over here.
LAURA: On the other side.
MATT: You went all the way around the other side?
MARK: I have a minus one, it's a 13. She's pretty
oblivious.
MATT: No, there's no way.
TALIESIN: We are the worst people.
MARK: As if I didn't know that coming in.
LIAM: We might be the third from the worst
people.
MARISHA: "As if I didn't know that coming here."
That's the worst thing anyone has said about us.
MARK: I know how The Mighty Nein works.
MATT: The bowl is magical. It is used as a
communion device. When granted with enough blood
and given the proper ritual, it's used to acquire
auguries, various bits of divination, and
communication across the Divine Gate with whatever
this Scaled Tyrant may be.
LIAM: But it needs a lot of blood?
MATT: It needs enough to fill the bowl.
LAIM: I can tell from my Identify spell that its
purpose is to speak with this thing on the other
side, this deity?
MATT: Some sort of communion, that's all you can
make out from it.
LIAM: What about the vials?
MATT: The vials are not magically enchanted.
LIAM: That sucks. Nothing to be told, okay. I
don't want this.
MATT: Hold on, Identify should--
SAM: You don't want the bowl?
LIAM: No.
SAM: Okay. Do you think it's bad to give it to
her?
ASHLEY: I'm not there, but--
SAM: Do you think it's bad to give it to her?
LIAM: I don't know. It is not of any use to us, I
don't think.
SAM: Okay. Then let's give it to her.
LIAM: I stick it into my satchel for the time
being.
MATT: Okay. What are you guys doing? You're
underwater. Fjord, you're swimming down, going
through the darkness, keeping your way there. It
goes under for about 30 feet, 40 feet. You're
pulling your way across the ceiling as it levels
out, curves a bit, straightens. Lungs start to
hurt a little bit, but you're still holding your
breath okay, pulling your way through this
darkness.
LAURA: This makes me feel so uncomfortable.
TALIESIN: I'm not okay with this.
TRAVIS: This is college all over again.
MATT: You pull under, and you're uncertain as to
where it'll end, and that brief little peaking
fear in the back of your mind, flashes and
memories of being under the ocean, of the
shipwreck, of looking up and not knowing which
direction was up. That gives you this brief surge
of vertigo. You stop for a second, and a couple
bubbles escape. Go ahead and make a constitution
saving throw.
TRAVIS: 21.
MATT: 21. You push through, continue, swim across,
swim. "Learn." You come up, and all of a sudden
you can see now, it begins to rise up once more,
and you begin to swim up, pull across the front,
and then suddenly your fingers break water, but
you do so carefully. Take a breath slowly as your
head emerges from the dark water in what is a
large, darkened chamber. Make a perception check
with disadvantage.
TRAVIS: Six.
MATT: You see where this 15, 20-foot pool that
you've emerged from opens up into this chamber
that is filled with low water and a number of
divots and pools within. The bars of land are
limited and thin. You see from the peripheral of
your vision, before it ends at that point, roughly
five or six more of these creatures. You see a
very faint glow in the distance, a number of
objects that are piled and shoved into a central
place. You see elements, old pieces of stone
structures that have fallen in. This chamber
inside here had a built or constructed purpose
long ago, and since has crumbled as the earth has
shifted. That's as much as you can make out.
TRAVIS: I'll take a big breath, blow it all the
way out. (inhales deeply) Go back under, push back.
MATT: Okay, cool. Making your way through, now you
know the path is there, the confidence because you
know there is air eventually helps you push
through. You make it halfway through--
TRAVIS: What's the depth like as I'm going
through?
MATT: It's about 15, 20 feet.
TRAVIS: So I can see the bottom?
MATT: You can see the bottom, yeah.
TRAVIS: That's not so bad.
MATT: You do manage to come out the other side,
emerge, and take your breath. Now that you've been
through it once, and managed to go through it a
little more confidently, you didn't have to worry
about holding your breath.
LAURA: Oh my god, are you okay?
TRAVIS: Yeah. There's another room. There's five
more of them, if I remember.
MARK: Those things?
TRAVIS: Yeah, there's a whole other cavern.
There's ruins and objects and all sorts of stuff.
We're not done with this by a damn sight.
MARISHA: Our job was to secure the safehouse. We
can collapse this and say job done.
TRAVIS: There were so many things. There were
crates and objects.
MARISHA: That changes things.
LAURA: What if the safehouse is that other tunnel?
What if this whole thing is the safehouse?
TRAVIS: Could be underneath it.
LIAM: What if it's beyond even what Fjord has just
seen? We do not know what we are talking about yet.
TRAVIS: We could guard this entrance and rest up
for a bit, get ourselves together and carry
through. It's not that far. I think everybody
could make it. I certainly could help somebody if
they're not a very good swimmer, but--
MARISHA: Maybe run a line. Have the rope in case.
LIAM: You know, we could rest up here on the back
corner of this chamber. I could cast my silver
thread across this pool here on the other side. If
anything comes through, it wakes us up. We'll be
ready. We get ready for going further and--
TALIESIN: We could even cast the thread and sleep
upstairs.
TRAVIS: We could. I know there are five, but I
think we use this funnel point as a fatal funnel,
right? We make them come through one at a time. We
send some bait, bring them back through, but only
when we're ready. What do you think?
LAURA: I'm okay with that.
TALIESIN: Sure.
TRAVIS: Cali?
MARK: I want to help you guys, I really do, but if
what I'm looking for is not here, I've got to try
and find it. I've got to stop these people getting
it. The longer I spend here, if it's not here, the
better chance they have of finding it, and I can't
let that happen.
LIAM: What if you spend one more night with us,
here?
MARK: I really want to, Mr. Caleb. Like, you all
seem so nice and you're the first people I could
even say that I've made friends with, but this is
too important.
LAURA: I just can't believe we didn't find that
bowl for you.
MARK: Maybe I messed up. Like I said, I'm not very
good in the outside world, and I thought that I
found it here, but-- It's fine.
LIAM: Tell us again. What do you need it for? What
are your intentions with it? Honestly, look me in
the eye. What do you mean to do with this thing
when you find it?
MARK: Mr. Caleb, I want to destroy it.
LIAM: How will you destroy it?
MARK: To be honest with you, I don't know. I know
I'll find a way if I have to, but-- I just-- The
biggest thing I'm afraid of is that the cult and
Serissa, they'll find somebody like me. They'll
find somebody descended from an ancient dragon
like I was. Then they can do this all again. I got
away once. I can't let that happen to someone
else.
LIAM: Yasha, will you come here, please?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LIAM: I need your help. Mollymauk, will you come
here, please?
TALIESIN: Yeah, sure.
LIAM: Beauregard, Fjord, will you come here,
please?
MARISHA: What?
TRAVIS: Sure.
LIAM: I start to move away from Cali.
LAURA: Why don't you want me to come here,
please?
LIAM: Would you come back with me, Jester,
LAURA: Whatever.
MARK: (softly) What's going on?
LIAM: Once there is a defensive wall between me
and Cali, I pull the bowl out of my bag.
MARK: Where did you find that?
LAURA: (gasps) Caleb, you found the bowl! I'm so
proud of you.
LIAM: No.
MATT: (Jester voice) "I'm so proud of you."
LAURA: Yeah, Kiri's proud of you, too.
LIAM: No, Kiri. Bren found the bowl. Cali, I would
like to help you, but this thing is... powerful.
MARK: Yes.
LIAM: And I met you ten hours ago?
MARK: Mr. Caleb, all I can tell you is that the
whole reason I came here is to find that, so-- Let
me put it this way. You care about these people?
You care about this group?
LIAM: Yeah, I do.
MARK: Then don't keep that thing. The cult will
find you. I know more about them than you. I can
hide. I can stay away from them.
LIAM: Well, I have a wonderful compromise. You
know, we can all camp down here as I suggested,
you included. In the morning, my good friend
Jester can get to the bottom of your intentions
for good. For real.
MARISHA: Caleb's still holding the bowl?
MATT: Mm-hmm.
MARISHA: Can I snatch it out of his hand real
quick?
MATT: Go ahead. Make a dexterity check, opposed.
MARISHA: Just a straight dex check?
LIAM: What do I do, dex as well? Oh, it's gonna be
so good.
MATT: Disadvantage for you because you weren't
expecting it.
MARISHA: It's not great.
LIAM: That's a two, so I think this story is over.
Aw, the second one was an 18. Aw. Three.
MARISHA: Ten.
MATT: The bowl leaves your hand. Now Beau's
holding it.
MARISHA: I'm playing a game of keep-away.
TRAVIS: Are you natural Beau or big-ass Beau?
MATT: No, it's faded.
MARISHA: (sing-songy) Caleb.
LIAM: Why would you not want to wait 12 hours to
see if this woman's intentions are true or not?
LAURA: What difference does it make?
LIAM: What difference does it make?! This bowl--
LAURA: You don't have it in your hand anymore,
Caleb.
LIAM: This bowl that I am talking about can be
used to speak to one of the most evil entities in
the history of creation, so I think it warrants
another 12 hours of waiting to get to the bottom
of things.
LAURA: I don't think you should stop someone from
talking to a god if they want to talk to a god.
MARK: I don't want to talk to her. I want to make
that clear.
ASHLEY: If you want to destroy it, why don't we
just destroy it right here?
TALIESIN: I don't think it can be.
MARK: I always thought you'd need something more
impressive to do that, but if we can destroy it
here, then so be it.
LIAM: I think it is going to be a little bit
beyond your capabilities to destroy this bowl,
Yasha.
ASHLEY: No, I don't mean me.
MARISHA: Caleb, I respect you and all of your
intentions, but your caution does not get to
control other people's destinies.
LIAM: That bowl is used for communicating with
(nervous laugh) the mother of dragons.
MARK: Are you going to rest now? Are we doing
anything else? Are you resting now, or do you wish
to take this time now?
MARISHA: You had no intentions of wanting this
bowl, or needing this bowl, or caring about this
bowl until Cali came around.
LIAM: Beauregard. You keep the bowl all night so
that Jester can use the spell she used in the past
for truth, and then we ask Cali, and I would love
to hear that Cali's intentions are true and good.
If they're not, we'll find out.
LAURA: I believe you, Cali. I don't think I need to
cast it on you.
MARK: But you need to trust each other.
TALIESIN: Actually, here's an insane thing that
occurred to me. Technically speaking, Charm Person
lasts a really long time. I cast Friends.
LIAM: Friends. One minute.
LAURA: Oh! Well, I can cast Charm Person.
MARK: You tried to cast something on your friend,
the guide, right? To make him tell the truth. Do
that on me. I won't resist it. I promise.
TALIESIN: That's fair. I'm into that.
LIAM: Yeah, okay. I suggest you tell us the
absolute truth of your intentions with this bowl.
MARK: I don't want to resist it, so: I intend to
either destroy it, or find somewhere secure that
the Cult of the Caustic Heart, servants of the
Scaled Tyrant, can't find it, because they knew my
power. They knew that I'm descended from an
ancient black dragon from far away. If they find
another one like me, they could do terrible
things. I promise you, Mr. Caleb, I promise you
that all I want is to right some of the wrongs
that I once did as part of that group. I helped
kill people; I helped torture people. I've got to
make this right, and that's the only way I can do
this. I don't know much, but I know that the only
person that can take that thing and make sure it's
not used for ill is me.
TALIESIN: Mr. Caleb.
SAM: (snickers) You have the helm.
TALIESIN: There's only so many burdens we're
expected to bear before we're asking for failure.
MARK: I don't want you to have to bear this one.
LIAM: I'm glad for you to take it. I'm a little
surprised at the rest of you for me being
cautious, but I'm glad for you to take it.
MARK: Thank you.
TALIESIN: Oh, no. I'm with you.
MARISHA: I grab Caleb, drag him aside, hand Cali
the bowl, drag Caleb over to a private corner, and
I say, look. We all have our fucking trauma. You
understand that? We all have our fucking garbage,
and our dirt, and our shit. But you don't get to
use your skeletons in your closet, your PTSD, to
be shitty and control other people and what they
want. It does not make you the authority on what's
right and what's wrong. Just because you think
that you're a shitty person, guess what? We're all
fucking shitty people.
LAURA: Not all of us are shitty.
LIAM: Are we separate or are we not separate?
MATT: She's not being subtle.
MARISHA: I get feeling like shitty people. I don't
speak for the rest of these guys, but I get
feeling shitty. But it doesn't mean that you get
to impress that on other people and make them feel
like shitheads just because you are.
LIAM: Beauregard, what if she had been lying to
us?
MARISHA: Then she fucking lied to us. We take
that, and we learn that as a lesson for later on.
MARK: Ms. Beauregard, if I can.
MARISHA: Yes, Cali?
MARK: I think out of everyone here, from what I've
seen, Mr. Caleb is the only one who really
understands how powerful this thing is. Even I
didn't know as much. I appreciate everything that
you've just said and it's the nicest thing that
anyone's ever done for me. Please don't blame him.
He was doing the right thing.
MARISHA: I'm not blaming him. It's just that this
isn't the first occurrence of something like this
with him, either.
MARK: I think he's trying to do the right thing.
MARISHA: I think he is, too.
MARK: Okay.
TALIESIN: (yelling) You were right, Caleb! You're
just a shitty communicator!
MARISHA: It's kind of what Molly said.
TALIESIN: (yelling) Yep!
LIAM: I told you exactly what I wanted to do, and
why.
MARISHA: The road to hell is paved with good
intentions.
LIAM: I don't know what you're talking about. And
I walk away from her without saying another word.
MARISHA: That's fair.
MARK: I'm going to look at everybody. I really
wish I could help you with the rest of this, but
I've got to get this thing away from you, you
know? People will be after this, as soon as I can.
LAURA: Cali, be careful. There's trolls out there,
and gators.
MARK: I'll be careful.
TRAVIS: Cali, I'm just curious. You don't want to
try and smash it on the ground real fast? Just for
shits and giggles.
MARK: I can try.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I mean, while we're all here.
TALIESIN: I've never played with a magical item
before.
MATT: You throw it on the ground. It rolls off,
untouched.
MARK: I'll try Acid Splash as well.
MATT: All the acid runs off of it, unscathed.
TRAVIS: Yasha, chuck that shit on the side of the
wall, will you?
ASHLEY: Wait, is it magical?
LAURA: Super-duper.
LIAM: Highly.
ASHLEY: I'm going to try to take out my Magician's
Judge sword. Because I can try to Dispel Magic.
I'll try to do it. Might not work.
MATT: Okay. You're going to strike it as you're
dispelling it? Is that what you're doing?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: Okay. You hold your Magician's Judge up, you
lift it over your head, and swing it down with all
your might. Go ahead and make the check for the
Dispel Magic on the sword.
ASHLEY: What's that?
MATT: It's under the description of the sword on
your app. It's a d20 plus-- Not the attack roll;
it's under the ability.
ASHLEY: --cast as a 3rd-level and the ability
check bonus for the spell is plus three.
MATT: Yeah, so roll and add three.
ASHLEY: 13?
MATT: 13. As you strike downward, there's a brief
moment where you see a flash of energy as if the
field is temporarily dissipating whatever magical
connection this object holds. In that brief,
ever-so-subtle instance of time in which this
marble bowl is left in a brief blip in history, it
is exposed to the elements. The blade carves
through and shatters. The glow, (explosion)! For
that instance, there is a brief burst of bright
green, blue, red, white, black energy that
emanates and this low growling rumble. And, with
that, the bowl and whatever enchantment it held is gone.
MARK: You did it.
ASHLEY: Sorry.
MARK: No! Yasha, you destroyed it! That's exactly
what I wanted to do! I didn't think it'd be possible!
ASHLEY: I really didn't either. I just--
TALIESIN: I owe you the biggest drink. Oh my god!
MARK: Ms. Yasha, though, you need to be careful. I
mean, that thing was connected to the Scaled
Tyrant and the cultists. If they find out what you've
done, they'll come after you. But I want you to
know I'll do whatever I can to stop them.
ASHLEY: Well, hey, (stutters) I just-- I didn't
think that was going to happen so fast, to be
honest.
MARK: I don't think any of us did.
MATT: It's interesting. As it shattered and while
you're having this conversation, there's this
static electricity around Yasha. Occasionally, as
she brings her hand closer, you watch as these
little bolts of energy are arcing through here. As
it slowly fades, you can see there's a slight
faint glow of the symbol she holds at her belt
that eventually goes mundane as well.
MARK: Can I rush over and hug Yasha for what she's
done? I throw my arms around you, draconic claw
piercing in a little bit.
ASHLEY: I keep my arms down, but I give her a
pat.
MARK: Thank you so much. You don't understand what
this means.
ASHLEY: You're welcome. I'm glad it was me and not
you so you don't get in trouble or you're not
marked or anything.
MARK: I'm sure that the Scaled Tyrant is looking
for me in other ways, but thank you. You guys,
I've never had people look after me and help me
like this before. You guys are probably the first
friends I've ever had. Where do you guys normally
stay, if I need to come and find you?
TRAVIS: We're actually traveling all around. I was
going to ask: Where do you go now, since you've
achieved your objective?
MARK: I'll head back to Port Damali. There's other
artifacts I need to find and destroy, but now I
know that they can be. That's what I'm going to
focus on.
TRAVIS: We might find our way down to the
Menagerie Coast at some point, and if we do, we'll
give you a look.
MARK: I'd really like that, please.
Can I write to you if I leave letters? Can
we be pen pals, Jester?
LAURA: Oh my god, I will send all the letters,
Cali!
MARK: Oh, yes, absolutely!
LAURA: That would make me so happy!
MARK: I'm going to write you letters all the
time!
LAURA: I'm going to write you letters back all the
time, okay?
MARK: Hugs.
LAURA: Hugs, hugs, hugs.
ASHLEY: I do have a question. The jewels in the
bowl: are they still there?
LAURA: What jewels?
ASHLEY: In the eyeballs.
MATT: Make an investigation check to search for
where the shards all landed.
MARK: I'm going to start putting some of my stuff
together to get ready to leave, but I'm going to
head over to Nott, because Caleb's walked off.
ASHLEY: Six.
MARK: Nott-- Bren?
SAM: You can just go with Nott.
MARK: Okay. You seem to know Mr. Caleb really
well.
SAM: I do.
MARK: Can you give him something for me?
SAM: Sure.
MARK: I'm going to give Nott the Scroll of
Invisibility that I never used. This is for your
help, for Mr. Caleb's help, and all of you. It's
not much, but it's something.
SAM: This is very nice of you.
MARK: You don't know what you've done for me, so
this is the least I can do. I really do understand
what he did.
SAM: He has-- yes.
MARK: Thank you.
SAM: You're welcome? Thank you. It was lovely to
meet you-- and he really does have the best of
intentions.
MARK: I know he does, and I'm sure he's going to
be a really powerful wizard one day.
SAM: I know he will be.
MARK: I know he will.
SAM: Yes, he will! Why are you saying it like
that? Because he will.
MARK: Because you are!
SAM: Okay!
(laughter)
MARK: I'll say my goodbyes and come up and shake
Fjord's hand.
TRAVIS: Strong grip.
MARK: I won't use the dragon one. Go up to
Mollymauk, shake hands.
TALIESIN: Oh, the dragon one.
ASHLEY: The dragon one.
MARK: Thank you?
ASHLEY: I wouldn't have skinned you, that was just
a joke in the beginning.
MARK: Oh, good. Don't do that, please.
ASHLEY: I won't-- (quietly) I would have, but I
just--
MARK: Good luck with clearing this out, but I've
got to go.
LAURA: Be careful, okay?
MARK: I will, I promise. We'll write letters.
LAURA: Yes, of course!
TRAVIS: Remember, follow the daggers on the way
out, they mark your way.
MARK: I will do. Yeah, I've got to keep out for
that troll, right?
SAM: We were supposed to get some sort of
bracelet.
MARISHA: Troll, and also really big alligators.
MARK: Well, you got my scroll.
SAM: Over shit!
MARK: I'll make my way out.
MATT: Okay. Cali climbs the rope, with a brief
glimmer of her feet vanishing into the tunnel
above. You all settle in to rest and decide what
you're going to do with the rest of this chamber,
if anything. And that's where we'll end tonight's
game.
LIAM: Drama!
MATT: Good drama! It's fun.
MARISHA: I love you.
TRAVIS: Dram-o-mine!
MATT: Oh man. Good game. Mark, thank you for
coming on!
MARK: No, thank you guys all so much! I've said
this to Matt, but I've been hearing stories of Vox
Machina since before you guys started streaming
from Matt, and I've watched the whole show, so
this was super awesome to get to be here and play
with you guys.
MARISHA: Tell them where to find you on High
Rollers!
MARK: Yeah, so if you'd like to see me GM, I do a
show called High Rollers every Sunday at 5:00pm
UK-time. I think it's like 9:00am PST? That's on
twitch.tv/Yogscast. We just finished our first
two-and-a-half-year campaign, but on July 1st,
we're starting our brand new campaign.
ALL: Wow!
MARK: That'll be our brand-new thing, so please
come and watch that.
LIAM: God, I can't believe that's already been
that long.
MARK: Well, when you guys started, we were
inspired by Crit Role, and we started our show,
and we've gotten to the next part of our
adventures.
MARISHA: Yogscast is great, you guys are great,
the cast is great--
MARK: High Rollers is great, I'm not going to talk
about the rest of Yogscast.
MATT: Yeah, High Rollers is great!
MARK: Yeah, you can also see me on the Stream of
Many Eyes. I'm going to be DMing a game for
Ashley, Taliesin, and Sam on Sunday, along with
some other people as well.
ASHLEY: I can't wait.
MARK: Thank you guys all so much, that was
awesome.
MATT: Thank you for coming.
MARISHA: Yeah, Cali!
MATT: Thank you guys for hanging on! Thank you D&amp;D
Beyond for being amazing. We love you guys so
much. We'll see you soon, and is it Thursday yet?
Good night.
[music]